I think I stood stunned for some moments. Then I have a confused recollection of snatching at a
paper. of the remonstrance of the man, whom I had not paid, and, finally, of standing in the doorway
of a chemist's shop while I turned up the fateful paragraph. This was how it ran:        We learn
with regret that Mr. Sherlock Holmes, the well-known private     detective, was the victim this
morning of a murderous assault which has     left him in a precarious position. There are no exact
details to hand,     but the event seems to have occurred about twelve o'clock in Regent     Street,
outside the Cafe Royal. The attack was made by two men armed with     sticks, and Mr. Holmes was
beaten about the head and body, receiving     injuries which the doctors describe as most serious.
He was carried to     Charing Cross Hospital and afterwards insisted upon being taken to his
rooms in Baker Street. The miscreants who attacked him appear to have     been respectably dressed
men, who escaped from the bystanders by     passing through the Cafe Royal and out into Glasshouse
Street behind it.     No doubt they belonged to that criminal fraternity which has so often had
occasion to bewail the activity and ingenuity of the injured man.    I need not say that my eyes had
hardly glanced over the paragraph before I had sprung into a hansom and was on my way to Baker
Street. I found Sir Leslie Oakshott, the famous surgeon, in the hall and his brougham waiting at the
curb.   "No immediate danger," was his report. "Two lacerated scalp wounds and some considerable
bruises. Several stitches have been necessary. Morphine has been injected and quiet is essential,
but an interview of a few minutes would not be absolutely forbidden."   With this permission I stole
into the darkened room. The sufferer was wide awake, and I heard my name in a hoarse whisper. The
blind was three-quarters down, but one ray of sunlight slanted through and struck the bandaged head
of the injured man. A crimson patch had soaked through the white linen compress. I sat beside him
and bent my head.   "All right, Watson. Don't look so scared," he muttered in a very weak voice.
"It's not as bad as it seems."   "Thank God for that!"   "I'm a bit of a single-stick expert. as you
know. I took most of them on my guard. It was the second man that was too much for me."   "What can
I do, Holmes? Of course, it was that damned fellow who set them on. I'll go and thrash the hide off
him if you give the word."   "Good old Watson! No, we can do nothing there unless the police lay
their hands on the men. But their get-away had been well prepared. We may be sure of that. Wait a
little. I have my plans. The first thing is to exaggerate my injuries. They'll come to you for news.
Put it on thick, Watson. Lucky if I live the week out concussion delirium -- what you like! You
can't overdo it."   "But Sir Leslie Oakshott?"   "Oh, he's all right. He shall see the worst side of
me. I'll look after that."   "Anything else?"   "Yes. Tell Shinwell Johnson to get that girl out of
the way. Those beauties will be after her now. They know, of course, that she was with me in the
case. If they dared to do me in it is not likely they will neglect her. That is urgent. Do it to-
night."   "I'll go now. Anything more?"   "Put my pipe on the table -- and the tobacco-slipper.
Right! Come in each morning and we will plan our campaign."   I arranged with Johnson that evening
to take Miss Winter to a quiet suburb and see that she lay low until the danger was past.   For six
days the public were under the impression that Holmes was at the door of death. The bulletins were
very grave and there were sinister paragraphs in the papers. My continual visits assured me that it
was not so bad as that. His wiry constitution and his determined will were working wonders. He was
recovering fast, and I had suspicions at times that he was really finding himself faster than he
pretended even to me. There was a curious secretive streak in the man which led to many dramatic
effects, but left even his closest friend guessing as to what his exact plans might be. He pushed to
an extreme the axiom that the only safe plotter was he who plotted alone. I was nearer him than
anyone else, and yet I was always conscious of the gap between.   On the seventh day the stitches
were taken out, in spite of which there was a report of erysipelas in the evening papers. The same
evening papers had an announcement which I was bound, sick or well, to carry to my friend. It was
simply that among the passengers on the Cunard boat Ruritania, starting from Liverpool on Friday,
was the Baron Adelbert Gruner, who had some important financial business to settle in the States
before his impending wedding to Miss Violet de Merville, only daughter of, etc., etc. Holmes
listened to the news with a cold, concentrated look upon his pale face, which told me that it hit
him hard.   "Friday!" he cried. "Only three clear days. I believe the rascal wants to put himself
out of danger's way. But he won't, Watson! By the Lord Harry, he won't! Now, Watson, I want you to
do something for me."   "I am here to be used, Holmes."   "Well, then, spend the next twenty-four
hours in an intensive study of Chinese pottery."   He gave no explanations and I asked for none. By
long experience I had learned the wisdom of obedience. But when I had left his room I walked down
Baker Street, revolving in my head how on earth I was to carry out so strange an order. Finally I
drove to the London Library in St. James's Square, put the matter to my friend Lomax, the
sublibrarian, and departed to my rooms with a goodly volume under my arm.   It is said that the
barrister who crams up a case with such care that he can examine an expert witness upon the Monday
has forgotten all his forced knowledge before the Saturday. Certainly I should not like now to pose
as an authority upon ceramics. And yet all that evening, and all that night with a short interval
for rest, and all next morning, I was sucking in knowledge and committing names to memory. There I
learned of the hall-marks of the great artist-decorators, of the mystery of cyclical dates, the
marks of the Hung-wu and the beauties of the Yung-lo, the writings of Tang-ying, and the glories of
the primitive period of the Sung and the Yuan. I was charged with all this information when I called
upon Holmes next evening. He was out of bed now, though you would not have guessed it from the
published reports, and he sat with his much-bandaged head resting upon his hand in the depth of his
favourite armchair.   "Why, Holmes," I said, "if one believed the papers, you are dying. "   "That,"
said he, "is the very impression which I intended to convey. And now, Watson, have you learned your
lessons?"   "At least I have tried to."   "Good. You could keep up an intelligent conversation on
the subject?"   "I believe I could."   "Then hand me that little box from the mantelpiece."   He
opened the lid and took out a small object most carefully wrapped in some fine Eastern silk. This he
unfolded, and disclosed a delicate little saucer of the most beautiful deep-blue colour.   "It needs
careful handling, Watson. This is the real egg-shell pottery of the Ming dynasty. No finer piece
ever passed through Christie's. A complete set of this would be worth a king's ransom -- in fact, it
is doubtful if there is a complete set outside the imperial palace of Peking. The sight of this
would drive a real connoisseur wild."   "What am I to do with it?"   Holmes handed me a card upon
which was printed: "Dr. Hill Barton, 369 Half Moon Street."   "That is your name for the evening,
Watson. You will call upon Baron Gruner. I know something of his habits, and at half-past eight he
would probably be disengaged. A note will tell him in advance that you are about to call, and you
will say that you are bringing him a specimen of an absolutely unique set of Ming china. You may as
well be a medical man, since that is a part which you can play without duplicity. You are a
collector this set has come your way, you have heard of the Baron's interest in the subject, and you
are not averse to selling at a price."   "What price?"   "Well asked, Watson. You would certainly
fall down badly if you did not know the value of your own wares. This saucer was got for me by Sir
James, and comes, I understand, from the collection of his client. You will not exaggerate if you
say that it could hardly be matched in the world."   "I could perhaps suggest that the set should be
valued by an expert."   "Excellent, Watson! You scintillate to-day. Suggest Christie or Sotheby.
Your delicacy prevents your putting a price for yourself."   "But if he won't see me?"   "Oh, yes,
he will see you. He has the collection mania in its most acute form -- and especially on this
subject, on which he is an acknowledged authority. Sit down, Watson, and I will dictate the letter.
No answer needed. You will merely say that you are coming, and why."   It was an admirable document,
short, courteous, and stimulating to the curiosity of the connoisseur. A district messenger was duly
dispatched with it. On the same evening, with the precious saucer in my hand and the card of Dr.
Hill Barton in my pocket, I set off on my own adventure.   The beautiful house and grounds indicated
that Baron Gruner was, as Sir James had said, a man of considerable wealth. A long winding drive,
with banks of rare shrubs on either side, opened out into a great gravelled square adorned with
statues. The place had been built by a South African gold king in the days of the great boom, and
the long, low house with the turrets at the corners, though an architectural nightmare, was imposing
in its size and solidity. A butler, who would have adorned a bench of bishops, showed me in and
handed me over to a plush-clad footman, who ushered me into the Baron's presence.   He was standing
at the open front of a great case which stood between the windows and which contained part of his
Chinese collection. He turned as I entered with a small brown vase in his hand.   "Pray sit down,
Doctor," said he. "I was looking over my own treasures and wondering whether I could really afford
to add to them. This little Tang specimen, which dates from the seventh century, would probably
interest you. I am sure you never saw finer workmanship or a richer glaze. Have you the Ming saucer
with you of which you spoke?"   I carefully unpacked it and handed it to him. He seated himself at
his desk, pulled over the lamp, for it was growing dark, and set himself to examine it. As he did so
the yellow light beat upon his own features, and I was able to study them at my ease.   He was
certainly a remarkably handsome man. His European reputation for beauty was fully deserved. In
figure he was not more than of middle size, but was built upon graceful and active lines. His face
was swarthy, almost Oriental, with large, dark, languorous eyes which might easily hold an
irresistible fascination for women. His hair and moustache were raven black, the latter short,
pointed, and carefully waxed. His features were regular and pleasing, save only his straight, thin-
lipped mouth. If ever I saw a murderer's mouth it was there -- a cruel, hard gash in the face,
compressed, inexorable, and terrible. He was ill-advised to train his moustache away from it, for it
was Nature's danger-signal, set as a warning to his victims. His voice was engaging and his manners
perfect. In age I should have put him at little over thirty, though his record afterwards showed
that he was forty-two.   "Very fine -- very fine indeed!" he said at last. "And you say you have a
set of six to correspond. What puzzles me is that I should not have heard of such magnificent
specimens. I only know of one in England to match this, and it is certainly not likely to be in the
market. Would it be indiscreet if I were to ask you, Dr. Hill Barton, how you obtained this?"
"Does it really matter?" I asked with as careless an air as I could muster.   "You can see that the
piece is genuine, and, as to the value, I am content to take an expert's valuation."   "Very
mysterious," said he with a quick, suspicious flash of his dark eyes. "In dealing with objects of
such value, one naturally wishes to know all about the transaction. That the piece is genuine is
certain. I have no doubts at all about that. But suppose -- I am bound to take every possibility
into account -- that it should prove afterwards that you had no right to sell?"   "I would guarantee
you against any claim of the son."   "That, of course, would open up the question as to what your
guarantee was worth."   "My bankers would answer that."   "Quite so. And yet the whole transaction
strikes me as rather unusual."   "You can do business or not," said I with indifference. "I have
given you the first offer as I understood that you were a connoisseur, but I shall have no
difficulty in other quaerers."   "Who told you I was a connoisseur?"   "I was aware that you had
written a book upon the subject."   "Have you read the book?"   "No."   "Dear me, this becomes more
and more difficult for me to understand! You are a connoisseur and collector with a very valuable
piece in your collection, and yet you have never troubled to consult the one book which would have
told you of the real meaning and value of what you held. How do you explain that?"   "I am a very
busy man. I am a doctor in practice."   "That is no answer. If a man has a hobby he follows it up,
whatever his other pursuits may be. You said in your note that you were a connoisseur."   "So I am."
"Might I ask you a few questions to test you? I am obliged to tell you, Doctor -- if you are indeed
a doctor -- that the incident becomes more and more suspicious. I would ask you what do you know of
the Emperor Shomu and how do you associate him with the Shoso-in near Nara? Dear me, does that
puzzle you? Tell me a little about the Nonhern Wei dynasty and its place in the history of
ceramics."   I sprang from my chair in simulated anger.   "This is intolerable, sir," said I. "I
came here to do you a favour, and not to be examined as if I were a schoolboy. My knowledge on these
subjects may be second only to your own, but I certainly shall not answer questions which have been
put in so offensive a way."   He looked at me steadily. The languor had gone from his eyes. They
suddenly glared. There was a gleam of teeth from between those cruel lips.   "What is the game? You
are here as a spy. You are an emissary of Holmes. This is a trick that you are playing upon me. The
fellow is dying I hear, so he sends his tools to keep watch upon me. You've made your way in here
without leave, and, by God! you may find it harder to get out than to get in."   He had sprung to
his feet, and I stepped back, bracing myself for an attack, for the man was beside himself with
rage. He may have suspected me from the first; certainly this cross-examination had shown him the
truth; but it was clear that I could not hope to deceive him. He dived his hand into a side-drawer
and rummaged furiously. Then something struck upon his ear, for he stood listening intently.   "Ah!"
he cried. "Ah!" and dashed into the room behind him.   Two steps took me to the open door, and my
mind will ever carry a clear picture of the scene within. The window leading out to the garden was
wide open. Beside it, looking like some terrible ghost, his head gin with bloody bandages, his face
drawn and white, stood Sherlock Holmes. The next instant he was through the gap, and I heard the
crash of his body among the laurel bushes outside. With a howl of rage the master of the house
rushed after him to the open window.   And then! It was done in an instant, and yet I clearly saw
it. An arm -- a woman's arm -- shot out from among the leaves. At the same instant the Baron uttered
a horrible cry -- a yell which will always ring in my memory. He clapped his two hands to his face
and rushed round the room, beating his head horribly against the walls. Then he fell upon the
carpet, rolling and writhing, while scream after scream resounded through the house.   "Water! For
God's sake, water!" was his cry.   I seized a carafe from a side-table and rushed to his aid. At the
same moment the butler and several footmen ran in from the hall. I remember that one of them fainted
as I knelt by the injured man and turned that awful face to the light of the lamp. The vitriol was
eating into it everywhere and dripping from the ears and the chin. One eye was already white and
glazed. The other was red and inflamed. The features which I had admired a few minutes before were
now like some beautiful painting over which the artist has passed a wet and foul sponge. They were
blurred, discoloured, inhuman, terrible.   In a few words I explained exactly what had occurred, so
far as the vitriol attack was concerned. Some had climbed through the window and others had rushed
out on to the lawn, but it was dark and it had begun to rain. Between his screams the victim raged
and raved against the avenger. "It was that hell-cat, Kitty Winter!" he cried. "Oh, the she-devil!
She shall pay for it! She shall pay! Oh, God in heaven, this pain is more than I can bear!"   I
bathed his face in oil, put cotton wadding on the raw surfaces, and administered a hypodermic of
morphia. All suspicion of me had passed from his mind in the presence of this shock, and he clung to
my hands as if I might have the power even yet to clear those dead-fish eyes which glazed up at me.
I could have wept over the ruin had l not remembered very clearly the vile life which had led up to
so hideous a change. It was loathsome to feel the pawing of his burning hands, and I was relieved
when his family surgeon, closely followed by a specialist, came to relieve me of my charge. An
inspector of police had also arrived, and to him I handed my real card. It would have been useless
as well as foolish to do otherwise, for I was nearly as well known by sight at the Yard as Holmes
himself. Then I left that house of gloom and terror. Within an hour I was at Baker Street.   Holmes
was seated in his familiar chair, looking very pale and exhausted. Apart from his injuries, even his
iron nerves had been shocked by the events of the evening, and he listened with horror to my account
of the Baron's transformation.   "The wages of sin, Watson -- the wages of sin!" said he. "Sooner or
later it will always come. God knows, there was sin enough," he added, taking up a brown volume from
the table. "Here is the book the woman talked of. If this will not break off the marriage, nothing
ever could. But it will, Watson. It must. No self-respecting woman could stand it."   "It is his
love diary?"   "Or his lust diary. Call it what you will. The moment the woman told us of it I
realized what a tremendous weapon was there if we could but lay our hands on it. I said nothing at
the time to indicate my thoughts, for this woman might have given it away. But I brooded over it.
Then this assault upon me gave me the chance of letting the Baron think that no precautions need be
taken against me. That was all to the good. I would have waited a little longer, but his visit to
America forced my hand. He would never have left so compromising a document behind him. Therefore we
had to act at once. Burglary at night is impossible. He takes precautions. But there was a chance in
the evening if I could only be sure that his attention was engaged. That was where you and your blue
saucer came in. But I had to be sure of the position of the book, and I knew I had only a few
minutes in which to act, for my time was limited by your knowledge of Chinese pottery. Therefore I
gathered the girl up at the last moment. How could I guess what the little packet was that she
carried so carefully under her cloak? I thought she had come altogether on my business, but it seems
she had some of her own."   "He guessed I came from you."   "I feared he would. But you held him in
play just long enough for me to get the book, though not long enough for an unobserved escape. Ah,
Sir James, I am very glad you have come!"   Our courtly friend had appeared in answer to a previous
summons. He listened with the deepest attention to Holmes's account of what had occurred.   "You
have done wonders -- wonders!" he cried when he had heard the narrative. "But if these injuries are
as terrible as Dr. Watson describes, then surely our purpose of thwarting the marriage is
sufficiently gained without the use of this horrible book."   Holmes shook his head.   "Women of the
De Merville type do not act like that. She would love him the more as a disfigured martyr. No, no.
It is his moral side, not his physical, which we have to destroy. That book will bring her back to
earth -- and I know nothing else that could. It is in his own writing. She cannot get past it."
Sir James carried away both it and the precious saucer. As I was myself overdue, I went down with
him into the street. A brougham was waiting for him. He sprang in, gave a hurried order to the
cockaded coachman, and drove swiftly away. He flung his overcoat half out of the window to cover the
armorial bearings upon the panel, but I had seen them in the glare of our fanlight none the less. I
gasped with surprise. Then I turned back and ascended the stair to Holmes's room.   "I have found
out who our client is," I cried, bursting with my great news. "Why, Holmes, it is --"   "It is a
loyal friend and a chivalrous gentleman," said Holmes, holding up a restraining hand. "Let that now
and forever be enough for us."   I do not know how the incriminating book was used. Sir James may
have managed it. Or it is more probable that so delicate a task was entrusted to the young lady's
father. The effect, at any rate, was all that could be desired.   Three days later appeared a
paragraph in the Morning Post to say that the marriage between Baron Adelbert Gruner and Miss Violet
de Merville would not take place. The same paper had the first police-court hearing of the
proceedings against Miss Kitty Winter on the grave charge of vitriol-throwing. Such extenuating
circumstances came out in the trial that the sentence, as will be remembered was the lowest that was
possible for such an offence. Sherlock Holmes was threatened with a prosecution for burglary, but
when an object is good and a client is sufficiently illustrious, even the rigid British law becomes
human and elastic. My friend has not yet stood in the dock.