The ideas of my friend Watson, though limited, are exceed- ingly pertinacious. For a long time he
has worried me to write an experience of my own. Perhaps I have rather invited this perse- cution,
since I have often had occasion to point out to him how superficial are his own accounts and to
accuse him of pandering to popular taste instead of confining himself rigidly to facts and figures.
"Try it yourself, Holmes!" he has retorted, and I am compelled to admit that, having taken my pen in
my hand, I do begin to realize that the matter must be presented in such a way as may interest the
reader. The following case can hardly fail to do so, as it is among the strangest happenings in my
collection though it chanced that Watson had no note of it in his collection. Speaking of my old
friend and biographer, I would take this opportunity to remark that if I burden myself with a
companion in my various little inquiries it is not done out of sentiment or caprice, but it is that
Watson has some remarkable characteristics of his own to which in his modesty he has given small
attention amid his exaggerated estimates of my own performances. A confederate who foresees your
conclusions and course of action is always dangerous, but one to whom each development comes as a
perpetual surprise, and to whom the future is always a closed book, is indeed an ideal helpmate.   I
find from my notebook that it was in January, 1903, just after the conclusion of the Boer War, that
I had my visit from Mr. James M. Dodd, a big, fresh, sunburned, upstanding Briton. The good Watson
had at that time deserted me for a wife, the only selfish action which I can recall in our
association. I was alone.   It is my habit to sit with my back to the window and to place my
visitors in the opposite chair, where the light falls full upon them. Mr. James M. Dodd seemed
somewhat at a loss how to begin the interview. I did not attempt to help him, for his silence gave
me more time for observation. I have found it wise to impress clients with a sense of power, and so
I gave him some of my conclusions.   "From South Africa, sir, I perceive."   "Yes, sir," he
answered, with some surprise.   "Imperial Yeomanry, I fancy."   "Exactly."   "Middlesex Corps, no
doubt."   "That is so. Mr. Holmes, you are a wizard."   I smiled at his bewildered expression.
"When a gentleman of virile appearance enters my room with such tan upon his face as an English sun
could never give, and with his handkerchief in his sleeve instead of in his pocket, it is not
difficult to place him. You wear a short beard, which shows that you were not a regular. You have
the cut of a riding-man. As to Middlesex, your card has already shown me that you are a stockbroker
from Throgmorton Street. What other regiment would you join?"   "You see everything."   "I see no
more than you, but I have trained myself to notice what I see. However, Mr. Dodd, it was not to
discuss the science of observation that you called upon me this morning. What has been happening at
Tuxbury Old Park?"   "Mr. Holmes --!"   "My dear sir, there is no mystery. Your letter came with
that heading, and as you fixed this appointment in very pressing terms it was clear that something
sudden and important had occurred."   "Yes, indeed. But the letter was written in the afternoon, and
a good deal has happened since then. If Colonel Emsworth had not kicked me out --"   "Kicked you
out!"   "Well, that was what it amounted to. He is a hard nail, is Colonel Emsworth. The greatest
martinet in the Army in his day, and it was a day of rough language, too. I couldn't have stuck the
colonel if it had not been for Godfrey's sake."   I lit my pipe and leaned back in my chair.
"Perhaps you will explain what you are talking about."   My client grinned mischievously.   "I had
got into the way of supposing that you knew every- thing without being told," said he. "But I will
give you the facts, and I hope to God that you will be able to tell me what they mean. I've been
awake all night puzzling my brain, and the more I think the more incredible does it become.   "When
I joined up in January, 1901 -- just two years ago -- young Godfrey Emsworth had joined the same
squadron. He was Colonel Emsworth's only son -- Emsworth the Crimean V. C. -- and he had the
fighting blood in him, so it is no wonder he volunteered. There was not a finer lad in the regiment.
We formed a friendship -- the sort of friendship which can only be made when one lives the same life
and shares the same joys and sorrows. He was my mate -- and that means a good deal in the Army. We
took the rough and the smooth together for a year of hard fighting. Then he was hit with a bullet
from an elephant gun in the action near Diamond Hill outside-Pretoria. I got one letter from the
hospital at Cape Town and one from Southampton. Since then not a word -- not one word, Mr. Holmes,
for six months and more, and he my closest pal.   "Well, when the war was over, and we all got back,
I wrote to his father and asked where Godfrey was. No answer. I waited a bit and then I wrote again.
This time I had a reply, short and gruff. Godfrey had gone on a voyage round the world, and it was
not likely that he would be back for a year. That was all.   "I wasn't satisfied, Mr. Holmes. The
whole thing seemed to me so damned unnatural. He was a good lad, and he would not drop a pal like
that. It was not like him. Then, again, I happened to know that he was heir to a lot of money, and
also that his father and he did not always hit it off too well. The old man was sometimes a bully,
and young Godfrey had too much spirit to stand it. No, I wasn't satisfied, and I determined that I
would get to the root of the matter. It happened, however, that my own affairs needed a lot of
straightening out, after two years' ab- sence, and so it is only this week that I have been able to
take up Godfrey's case again. But since I have taken it up I mean to drop everything in order to see
it through."   Mr. James M. Dodd appeared to be the sort of person whom it would be better to have
as a friend than as an enemy. His blue eyes were stern and his square jaw had set hard as he spoke.
"Well, what have you done?" I asked.   "My first move was to get down to his home, Tuxbury Old Park,
near Bedford, and to see for myself how the ground lay. I wrote to the mother, therefore -- I had
had quite enough of the curmudgeon of a father -- and I made a clean frontal attack: Godfrey was my
chum, I had a great deal of interest which I might tell her of our common experiences, I should be
in the neighbourhood, would there be any objection, et cetera? In reply I had quite an amiable
answer from her and an offer to put me up for the night. That was what took me down on Monday.
"Tuxbury Old Hall is inaccessible -- five miles from any- where. There was no trap at the station,
so I had to walk, carrying my suitcase, and it was nearly dark before I arrived. It is a great
wandering house, standing in a considerable park. I should judge it was of all sorts of ages and
styles, starting on a half-timbered Elizabethan foundation and ending in a Victorian portico. Inside
it was all panelling and tapestry and half-effaced old pictures, a house of shadows and mystery.
There was a butler, old Ralph, who seemed about the same age as the house, and there was his wife,
who might have been older. She had been Godfrey's nurse, and I had heard him speak of her as second
only to his mother in his affections, so I was drawn to her in spite of her queer appearance. The
mother I liked also -- a gentle little white mouse of a woman. It was only the colonel himself whom
I barred.   "We had a bit of barney right away, and I should have walked back to the station if I
had not felt that it might be playing his game for me to do so. I was shown straight into his study,
and there I found him, a huge, bow-backed man with a smoky skin and a straggling gray beard, seated
behind his littered desk. A red-veined nose jutted out like a vulture's beak, and two fierce gray
eyes glared at me from under tufted brows. I could under- stand now why Godfrey seldom spoke of his
father.   " 'Well, sir,' said he in a rasping voice, 'I should be inter- ested to know the real
reasons for this visit.'   "I answered that I had explained them in my letter to his wife.   " 'Yes,
yes, you said that you had known Godfrey in Africa. We have, of course, only your word for that.'
" 'I have his letters to me in my pocket.'   " 'Kindly let me see them.'   "He glanced at the two
which I handed him, and then he tossed them back.   " 'Well, what then?' he asked.   " 'I was fond
of your son Godfrey, sir. Many ties and memo- ries united us. Is it not natural that I should wonder
at his sudden silence and should wish to know what has become of him?'   " 'I have some
recollections, sir, that I had already corres- ponded with you and had told you what had become of
him. He has gone upon a voyage round the world. His health was in a poor way after his African
experiences, and both his mother and I were of opinion that camplete rest and change were needed.
Kindly pass that explanation on to any other friends who may be interested in the matter.'   "
'Certainly,' I answered. 'But perhaps you would have the goodness to let me have the name of the
steamer and of the line by which he sailed, together with the date. I have no doubt that I should be
able to get a letter through to him.'   "My request seemed both to puzzle and to irritate my host.
His great eyebrows came down over his eyes, and he tapped his fingers impatiently on the table. He
looked up at last with the expression of one who has seen his adversary make a dangerous move at
chess, and has decided how to meet it.   " 'Many people, Mr. Dodd,' said he, 'would take offence at
your infernal pertinacity and would think that this insistence had reached the point of damned
impertinence.'   " 'You must put it down, sir, to my real love for your son.'   " 'Exactly. I have
already made every allowance upon that score. I must ask you, however, to drop these inquiries.
Every family has its own inner knowledge and its own motives, which cannot always be made clear to
outsiders, however well-intentioned. My wife is anxious to hear something of Godfrey's past which
you are in a position to tell her, but I would ask you to let the present and the future alone. Such
inquiries serve no useful purpose, sir, and place us in a delicate and difficult position.'   "So I
came to a dead end, Mr. Holmes. There was no getting past it. I could only pretend to accept the
situation and register a vow inwardly that I would never rest until my friend's fate had been
cleared up. It was a dull evening. We dined quietly, the three of us, in a gloomy, faded old room.
The lady questioned me eagerly about her son, but the old man seemed morose and depressed. I was so
bored by the whole proceeding that I made an excuse as soon as I decently could and retired to my
bedroom. It was a large, bare room on the ground floor, as gloomy as the rest of the house, but
after a year of sleeping upon the veldt, Mr. Holmes, one is not too particular about one's quarters.
I opened the curtains and looked out into the garden, remarking that it was a fine night with a
bright half-moon. Then I sat down by the roaring fire with the lamp on a table beside me, and
endeavoured to distract my mind with a novel. I was interrupted, however, by Ralph, the old butler,
who came in with a fresh supply of coals.   " 'I thought you might run short in the night-time, sir.
It is bitter weather and these rooms are cold.'   "He hesitated before leaving the room, and when I
looked round he was standing facing me with a wistful look upon his wrinkled face.   " 'Beg your
pardon, sir, but I could not help hearing what you said of young Master Godfrey at dinner. You know,
sir, that my wife nursed him, and so I may say I am his foster-father. It's natural we should take
an interest. And you say he carried himself well, sir?'   " 'There was no braver man in the
regiment. He pulled me out once from under the rifles of the Boers, or maybe I should not be here.'
"The old butler rubbed his skinny hands.   " 'Yes, sir, yes, that is Master Godfrey all over. He was
always courageous. There's not a tree in the park, sir, that he has not climbed. Nothing would stop
him. He was a fine boy -- and oh, sir, he was a fine man.'   "I sprang to my feet.   " 'Look here!'
I cried. 'You say he was. You speak as if he were dead. What is all this mystery? What has become of
Godfrey Emsworth?'   "I gripped the old man by the shoulder, but he shrank away.   " 'I don't know
what you mean, sir. Ask the master about Master Godfrey. He knows. It is not for me to interfere.'
"He was leaving the room, but I held his arm   " 'Listen,' I said. 'You are going to answer one
question before you leave if I have to hold you all night. Is Godfrey dead?"   "He could not face my
eyes. He was like a man hypnotized The answer was dragged from his lips. It was a terrible and
unexpected one.   " 'I wish to God he was!' he cried, and, tearing himself free he dashed from the
room.   "You will think, Mr. Holmes, that I returned to my chair in no very happy state of mind. The
old man's words seemed to me to bear only one interpretation. Clearly my poor friend had become
involved in some criminal or, at the least, disreputable transaction which touched the family
honour. That stern old man had sent his son away and hidden him from the world lest some scandal
should come to light. Godfrey was a reckless fellow. He was easily influenced by those around him.
No doubt he had fallen into bad hands and been misled to his ruin. It was a piteous business, if it
was indeed so, but even now it was my duty to hunt him out and see if I could aid him. I was
anxiously pondering the matter when I looked up, and there was Godfrey Emsworth standing before me."
My client had paused as one in deep emotion.   "Pray continue," I said. "Your problem presents some
very unusual features."   "He was outside the window, Mr. Holmes, with his face pressed against the
glass. I have told you that I looked out at the night. When I did so I left the curtains partly
open. His figure was framed in this gap. The window came down to the ground and I could see the
whole length of it, but it was his face which held my gaze. He was deadly pale -- never have I seen
a man so white. I reckon ghosts may look like that; but his eyes met mine, and they were the eyes of
a living man. He sprang back when he saw that I was looking at him, and he vanished into the
darkness.   "There was something shocking about the man, Mr. Holmes. It wasn't merely that ghastly
face glimmering as white as cheese in the darkness. It was more subtle than that -- something slink-
ing, something furtive, something guilty -- something very unlike the frank, manly lad that I had
known. It left a feeling of horror in my mind.   "But when a man has been soldiering for a year or
two with brother Boer as a playmate, he keeps his nerve and acts quickly. Godfrey had hardly
vanished before I was at the window. There was an awkward catch, and I was some little time before I
could throw it up. Then I nipped through and ran down the garden path in the direction that I
thought he might have taken.   "It was a long path and the light was not very good, but it seemed to
me something was moving ahead of me. I ran on and called his name, but it was no use. When I got to
the end of the path there were several others branching in different directions to various
outhouses. I stood hesitating, and as I did so I heard distinctly the sound of a closing door. It
was not behind me in the house, but ahead of me, somewhere in the darkness. That was enough, Mr.
Holmes, to assure me that what I had seen was not a vision. Godfrey had run away from me, and he had
shut a door behind him. Of that I was certain.   "There was nothing more I could do, and I spent an
uneasy night turning the matter over in my mind and trying to find some theory which would cover the
facts. Next day I found the colonel rather more conciliatory, and as his wife remarked that there
were some places of interest in the neighbourhood, it gave me an opening to ask whether my presence
for one more night would incommode them. A somewhat grudging acquiescence from the old man gave me a
clear day in which to make my observations. I was already perfectly convinced that Godfrey was in
hiding somewhere near, but where and why remained to be solved.   "The house was so large and so
rambling that a regiment might be hid away in it and no one the wiser. If the secret lay there it
was difficult for me to penetrate it. But the door which I had heard close was certainly not in the
house. I must explore the garden and see what I could find. There was no difficulty in the way, for
the old people were busy in their own fashion and left me to my own devices.   "There were several
small outhouses, but at the end of the garden there was a detached building of some size -- large
enough for a gardener's or a gamekeeper's residence. Could this be the place whence the sound of
that shutting door had come? I approached it in a careless fashion as though I were strolling
aimlessly round the grounds. As I did so, a small, brisk, bearded man in a black coat and bowler hat
-- not at all the gardener type -- came out of the door. To my surprise, he locked it after him and
put the key in his pocket. Then he looked at me with some surprise on his face.   " 'Are you a
visitor here?' he asked.   "I explained that I was and that I was a friend of Godfrey's.   " 'What a
pity that he should be away on his travels, for he would have so liked to see me,' I continued.   "
'Quite so. Exactly,' said he with a rather guilty air. 'No doubt you will renew your visit at some
more propitious time.' He passed on, but when I turned I observed that he was standing watching me,
half-concealed by the laurels at the far end of the garden.   "I had a good look at the little house
as I passed it, but the windows were heavily curtained, and, so far as one could see, it was empty.
I might spoil my own game and even be ordered off the premises if I were too audacious, for I was
still conscious that I was being watched. Therefore, I strolled back to the house and waited for
night before I went on with my inquiry. When all was dark and quiet I slipped out of my window and
made my way as silently as possible to the mysterious lodge.   "I have said that it was heavily
curtained, but now I found that the windows were shuttered as well. Some light, however, was
breaking through one of them, so I concentrated my attention upon this. I was in luck, for the
curtain had not been quite closed, and there was a crack in the shutter, so that I could see the
inside of the room. It was a cheery place enough, a bright lamp and a blazing fire. Opposite to me
was seated the little man whom I had seen in the morning. He was smoking a pipe and reading a
paper."   "What paper?" I asked.   My client seemed annoyed at the interruption of his narrative.
"Can it matter?" he asked.   "It is most essential."   "I really took no notice."   "Possibly you
observed whether it was a broad-leafed paper or of that smaller type which one associates with
weeklies."   "Now that you mention it, it was not large. It might have been the Spectator. However,
I had little thought to spare upon such details, for a second man was seated with his back to the
window, and I could swear that this second man was Godfrey. I could not see his face, but I knew the
familiar slope of his shoulders. He was leaning upon his elbow in an attitude of great melancholy,
his body turned towards the fire. I was hesitating as to what I should do when there was a sharp tap
on my shoulder, and there was Colonel Emsworth beside me.   " 'This way, sir!' said he in a low
voice. He walked in silence to the house, and I followed him into my own bedroom. He had picked up a
time-table in the hall.   " There is a train to London at 8:30,' said he. 'The trap will be at the
door at eight.'   "He was white with rage, and, indeed, I felt myself in so difficult a position
that I could only stammer out a few incoher- ent apologies in which I tried to excuse myself by
urging my anxiety for my friend.   " 'The matter will not bear discussion,' said he abruptly. 'You
have made a most damnable intrusion into the privacy of our family. You were here as a guest and you
have become a spy. I have nothing more to say, sir, save that I have no wish ever to see you again.'
"At this I lost my temper, Mr. Holmes, and I spoke with some warmth.   " 'I have seen your son, and
I am convinced that for some reason of your own you are concealing him from the world. I have no
idea what your motives are in cutting him off in this fashion, but I am sure that he is no longer a
free agent. I warn you, Colonel Emsworth, that until I am assured as to the safety and well-being of
my friend I shall never desist in my efforts to get to the bottom of the mystery, and I shall
certainly not allow myself to be intimidated by anything which you may say or do.'   "The old fellow
looked diabolical, and I really thought he was about to attack me. I have said that he was a gaunt,
fierce old giant, and though I am no weakling I might have been hard put to it to hold my own
against him. However, after a long glare of rage he turned upon his heel and walked out of the room.
For my part, I took the appointed train in the morning, with the full intention of coming straight
to you and asking for your advice and assistance at the appointment for which I had already
written."   Such was the problem which my visitor laid before me. It presented, as the astute reader
will have already perceived, few difficulties in its solution, for a very limited choice of alterna-
tives must get to the root of the matter. Still, elementary as it was, there were points of interest
and novelty about it which may excuse my placing it upon record. I now proceeded, using my familiar
method of logical analysis, to narrow down the possible solutions.   "The servants," I asked; "how
many were in the house?"   "To the best of my belief there were only the old butler and his wife.
They seemed to live in the simplest fashion."   "There was no servant, then, in the detached house?"
"None, unless the little man with the beard acted as such. He seemed, however, to be quite a
superior person."   "That seems very suggestive. Had you any indication that food was conveyed from
the one house to the other?"   "Now that you mention it, I did see old Ralph carrying a basket down
the garden walk and going in the direction of this house. The idea of food did not occur to me at
the moment."   "Did you make any local inquiries?"   "Yes, I did. I spoke to the station-master and
also to the innkeeper in the village. I simply asked if they knew anything of my old comrade,
Godfrey Emsworth. Both of them assured me that he had gone for a voyage round the world. He had come
home and then had almost at once started off again. The story was evidently universally accepted."
"You said nothing of your suspicions?"   "Nothing."   "That was very wise. The matter should
certainly be inquired into. I will go back with you to Tuxbury Old Park."   "To-day?"   It happened
that at the moment I was clearing up the case which my friend Watson has described as that of the
Abbey School, in which the Duke of Greyminster was so deeply in- volved. I had also a commission
from the Sultan of Turkey which called for immediate action, as political consequences of the
gravest kind might arise from its neglect. Therefore it was not until the beginning of the next
week, as my diary records, that I was able to start forth on my mission to Bedfordshire in company
with Mr. James M. Dodd. As we drove to Eustonn we picked up a grave and tacitum gentleman of iron-
gray aspect, with whom I had made the necessary arrangements.   "This is an old friend," said I to
Dodd. "It is possible that his presence may be entirely unnecessary, and, on the other hand, it may
be essential. It is not necessary at the present stage to go further into the matter."   The
narratives of Watson have accustomed the reader, no doubt, to the fact that I do not waste words or
disclose my thoughts while a case is actually under consideration. Dodd seemed surprised, but
nothing more was said, and the three of us continued our journey together. In the train I asked Dodd
one more question which I wished our companion to hear.   "You say that you saw your friend's face
quite clearly at the window, so clearly that you are sure of his identity?"   "I have no doubt about
it whatever. His nose was pressed against the glass. The lamplight shone full upon him."   "It could
not have been someone resembling him?"   "No, no, it was he."   "But you say he was changed?"
"Only in colour. His face was -- how shall I describe it? -- it was of a fish-belly whiteness. It
was bleached."   "Was it equally pale all over?"   "I think not. It was his brow which I saw so
clearly as it was pressed against the window."   "Did you call to him?"   "I was too startled and
horrified for the moment. Then I pursued him, as I have told you, but without result."   My case was
practically complete, and there was only one small incident needed to round it off. When, after a
considerable drive, we arrived at the strange old rambling house which my client had described, it
was Ralph, the elderly butler, who opened the door. I had requisitioned the carriage for the day and
had asked my elderly friend to remain within it unless we should summon him. Ralph, a little
wrinkled old fellow, was in the conventional costume of black coat and pepper-and-salt trousers,
with only one curious variant. He wore brown leather gloves, which at sight of us he instantly
shuffled off, laying them down on the hall-table as we passed in. I have, as my friend Watson may
have remarked, an abnormally acute set of senses, and a faint but incisive scent was apparent. It
seemed to centre on the hall table. I turned, placed my hat there, knocked it off, stooped to pick
it up, and contrived to bring my nose within a foot of the gloves. Yes, it was undoubtedly from them
that the curious tarry odour was oozing. I passed on into the study with my case complete. Alas,
that I should have to show my hand so when I tell my own story! It was by concealing such links in
the chain that Watson was enabled to produce his meretricious finales.   Colonel Emsworth was not in
his room, but he came quickly enough on receipt of Ralph's message. We heard his quick, heavy step
in the passage. The door was flung open and he rushed in with bristling beard and twisted features,
as terrible an old man as ever I have seen. He held our cards in his hand, and he tore them up and
stamped on the fragments.   "Have I not told you, you infernal busybody, that you are warned off the
premises? Never dare to show your damned face here again. If you enter again without my leave I
shall be within my rights if I use violence. I'll shoot you, sir! By God, I will! As to you, sir,"
turning upon me, "I extend the same warning to you. I am familiar with your ignoble profession, but
you must take your reputed talents to some other field. There is no opening for them here."   "I
cannot leave here," said my client firmly, "until I hear from Godfrey's own lips that he is under no
restraint."   Our involuntary host rang the bell.   "Ralph," he said, "telephone down to the county
police and ask the inspector to send up two constables. Tell him there are burglars in the house."
"One moment," said I. "You must be aware, Mr. Dodd, that Colonel Emsworth is within his rights and
that we have no legal status within his house. On the other hand, he should recognize that your
action is prompted entirely by solicitude for his son. I venture to hope that if I were allowed to
have five minutes conversation with Colonel Emsworth I could certainly alter his view of the
matter."   "I am not so easily altered," said the old soldier. "Ralph, do what I have told you. What
the devil are you waiting for? Ring up the police!"   "Nothing of the sort," I said, putting my back
to the door. "Any police interference would bring about the very catastrophe which you dread." I
took out my notebook and scribbled one word upon a loose sheet. "That," said I as I handed it to
Colonel Emsworth, "is what has brought us here."   He stared at the writing with a face from which
every expres- sion save amazement had vanished.   "How do you know?" he gasped, sitting down heavily
in his chair.   "It is my business to know things. That is my trade."   He sat in deep thought, his
gaunt hand tugging at his strag- gling beard. Then he made a gesture of resignation.   "Well, if you
wish to see Godfrey, you shall. It is no doing of mine, but you have forced my hand. Ralph, tell Mr.
Godfrey and Mr. Kent that in five minutes we shall be with them."   At the end of that time we
passed down the garden path and found ourselves in front of the mystery house at the end. A small
bearded man stood at the door with a look of considerable astonishment upon his face.   "This is
very sudden, Colonel Emsworth," said he. "This will disarrange all our plans."   "I can't help it,
Mr. Kent. Our hands have been forced. Can Mr. Godfrey see us?"   "Yes, he is waiting inside." He
turned and led us into a large plainly furnished front room. A man was standing with his back to the
fire, and at the sight of him my client sprang forward with outstretched hand.   "Why, Godfrey, old
man, this is fine!"   But the other waved him back.   "Don't touch me, Jimmie. Keep your distance.
Yes, you may well stare! I don't quite look the smart Lance-Corporal Emsworth, of B Squadron, do I?"
His appearance was certainly extraordinary. One could see that he had indeed been a handsome man
with clear-cut features sunburned by an African sun, but mottled in patches over this darker surface
were curious whitish patches which had bleached his skin.   "That's why I don't court visitors,"
said he. "I don't mind you, Jimmie, but I could have done without your friend. I suppose there is
some good reason for it, but you have me at a disadvantage."   "I wanted to be sure that all was
well with you, Godfrey. I saw you that night when you looked into my window, and I could not let the
matter rest till I had cleared things up."   "Old Ralph told me you were there, and I couldn't help
taking a peep at you. I hoped you would not have seen me, and I had to run to my burrow when I heard
the window go up."   "But what in heaven's name is the matter?"   "Well, it's not a long story to
tell," said he, lighting a cigarette. "You remember that morning fight at Buffelsspruit, outside
Pretoria, on the Eastern railway line? You heard I was hit?"   "Yes, I heard that but I never got
particulars."   "Three of us got separated from the others. It was very broken country, you may
remember. There was Simpson -- the fellow we called Baldy Simpson -- and Anderson, and I. We were
clear- ing brother Boer, but he lay low and got the three of us. The other two were killed. I got an
elephant bullet through my shoulder. I stuck on to my horse, however, and he galloped several miles
before I fainted and rolled off the saddle.   "When I came to myself it was nightfall, and I raised
myself up, feeling very weak and ill. To my surprise there was a house close beside me, a fairly
large house with a broad stoep and many windows. It was deadly cold. You remember the kind of numb
cold which used to come at evening, a deadly, sickening sort of cold, very different from a crisp
healthy frost. Well, I was chilled to the bone, and my only hope seemed to lie in reaching that
house. I staggered to my feet and dragged myself along, hardly conscious of what I did. I have a dim
memory of slowly ascending the steps, entering a wide-opened door, passing into a large room which
contained several beds, and throwing myself down with a gasp of satisfaction upon one of them. It
was unmade, but that troubled me not at all. I drew the clothes over my shivering body and in a
moment I was in a deep sleep.   "It was morning when I wakened, and it seemed to me that instead of
coming out into a world of sanity I had emerged into some extraordinary nightmare. The African sun
flooded through the big, curtainless windows, and every detail of the great, bare, whitewashed
dormitory stood out hard and clear. In front of me was standing a small, dwarf-like man with a huge,
bulbous head, who was jabbering excitedly in Dutch, waving two horrible hands which looked to me
like brown sponges. Behind him stood a group of people who seemed to be intensely amused by the
situation, but a chill came over me as I looked at them. Not one of them was a normal human being.
Every one was twisted or swollen or disfigured in some strange way. The laughter of these strange
monstrosities was a dreadful thing to hear.   "It seemed that none of them could speak English, but
the situation wanted clearing up, for the creature with the big head was growing furiously angry,
and, uttering wild-beast cries, he had laid his deformed hands upon me and was dragging me out of
bed, regardless of the fresh flow of blood from my wound. The little monster was as strong as a
bull, and I don't know what he might have done to me had not an elderly man who was clearly in
authority been attracted to the room by the hubbub; He said a few stern words in Dutch, and my
persecutor shrank away. Then he turned upon me, gazing at me in the utmost amazement.   " 'How in
the world did you come here?' he asked in amaze- ment. 'Wait a bit! I see that you are tired out and
that wounded shoulder of yours wants looking after. I am a doctor, and I'll soon have you tied up.
But, man alive! you are in far greater danger here than ever you were on the battlefield. You are in
the Leper Hospital, and you have slept in a leper's bed.'   "Need I tell you more, Jimmie? It seems
that in view of the approaching battle all these poor creatures had been evacuated the day before.
Then, as the British advanced, they had been brought back by this, their medical superintendent, who
assured me that, though he believed he was immune to the disease, he would none the less never have
dared to do what I had done. He put me in a private room, treated me kindly, and within a week or so
I was removed to the general hospital at Pretoria.   "So there you have my tragedy. I hoped against
hope, but it was not until I had reached home that the terrible signs which you see upon my face
told me that I had not escaped. What was I to do? I was in this lonely house. We had two servants
whom we could utterly trust. There was a house where I could live. Under pledge of secrecy, Mr.
Kent, who is a surgeon, was prepared to stay with me. It seemed simple enough on those lines. The
alternative was a dreadful one -- segregation for life among strang- ers with never a hope of
release. But absolute secrecy was necessary, or even in this quiet countryside there would have been
an outcry, and I should have been dragged to my horrible doom. Even you, Jimmie -- even you had to
be kept in the dark. Why my father has relented I cannot imagine."   Colonel Emsworth pointed to me.
"This is the gentleman who forced my hand." He unfolded the scrap of paper on which I had written
the word "Leprosy." "It seemed to me that if he knew so much as that it was safer that he should
know all."   "And so it was," said I. "Who knows but good may come of it? I understand that only Mr.
Kent has seen the patient. May I ask, sir, if you are an authority on such complaints, which are, I
understand, tropical or semi-tropical in their nature?"   "I have the ordinary knowledge of the
educated medical man," he observed with some stiffness.   "I have no doubt, sir, that you are fully
competent, but I am sure that you will agree that in such a case a second opinion is valuable. You
have avoided this, I understand, for fear that pressure should be put upon you to segregate the
patient."   "That is so," said Colonel Emsworth.   "I foresaw this situation," I explained, "and I
have brought with me a friend whose discretion may absolutely be trusted. I was able once to do him
a professional service, and he is ready to advise as a friend rather than as a specialist. His name
is Sir James Saunders."   The prospect of an interview with Lord Roberts would not have excited
greater wonder and pleasure in a raw subaltern than was now reflected upon the face of Mr. Kent.
"I shall indeed be proud," he murmured.   "Then I will ask Sir James to step this way. He is at
present in the carriage outside the door. Meanwhile, Colonel Emsworth, we may perhaps assemble in
your study, where I could give the necessary explanations."   And here it is that I miss my Watson.
By cunning questions and ejaculations of wonder he could elevate my simple art, which is but
systematized common sense, into a prodigy. When I tell my own story I have no such aid. And yet I
will give my process of thought even as I gave it to my small audience, which included Godfrey's
mother in the study of Colonel Emsworth.   "That process," said I, "starts upon the supposition that
when you have eliminated all which is impossible, then whatever remains, however improbable, must be
the truth. It may well be that several explanations remain, in which case one tries test after test
until one or other of them has a convincing amount of support. We will now apply this principle to
the case in point. As it was first presented to me, there were three possible expla- nations of the
seclusion or incarceration of this gentleman in an outhouse of his father's mansion. There was the
explanation that he was in hiding for a crime, or that he was mad and that they wished to avoid an
asylum, or that he had some disease which caused his segregation. I could think of no other adequate
solu- tions. These, then, had to be sifted and balanced against each other.   "The criminal solution
would not bear inspection. No un- solved crime had been reported from that district. I was sure of
that. If it were some crime not yet discovered, then clearly it would be to the interest of the
family to get rid of the delinquent and send him abroad rather than keep him concealed at home. I
could see no explanation for such a line of conduct.   "Insanity was more plausible. The presence of
the second person in the outhouse suggested a keeper. The fact that he locked the door when he came
out strengthened the supposition and gave the idea of constraint. On the other hand, this con-
straint could not be severe or the young man could not have got loose and come down to have a look
at his friend. You will remember, Mr. Dodd, that I felt round for points, asking you, for example,
about the paper which Mr. Kent was reading. Had it been the Lancet or the British Medical Journal it
would have helped me. It is not illegal, however, to keep a lunatic upon private premises so long as
there is a qualified person in atten- dance and that the authorities have been duly notified. Why,
then, all this desperate desire for secrecy? Once again I could not get the theory to fit the facts.
"There remained the third possibility, into which, rare and unlikely as it was, everything seemed to
fit. Leprosy is not uncommon in South Africa. By some extraordinary chance this youth might have
contracted it. His people would be placed in a very dreadful position, since they would desire to
save him from segregation. Great secrecy would be needed to prevent rumours from getting about and
subsequent interference by the authori- ties. A devoted medical man, if sufficiently paid, would
easily be found to take charge of the sufferer. There would be no reason why the latter should not
be allowed freedom after dark. Bleaching of the skin is a common result of the disease. The case was
a strong one -- so strong that I determined to act as if it were actually proved. When on arriving
here I noticed that Ralph, who carries out the meals, had gloves which are impregnated with
disinfectants, my last doubts were removed. A single word showed you, sir, that your secret was
discovered, and if I wrote rather than said it, it was to prove to you that my discretion was to be
trusted."   I was finishing this little analysis of the case when the door was opened and the
austere figure of the great dermatologist was ushered in. But for once his sphinx-like features had
relaxed and there was a warm humanity in his eyes. He strode up to Colonel Emsworth and shook him by
the hand.   "It is often my lot to bring ill-tidings and seldom good," said he. "This occasion is
the more welcome. It is not leprosy."   "What?"   "A well-marked case of pseudo-leprosy or
ichthyosis, a scale- like affection of the skin, unsightly, obstinate, but possibly curable, and
certainly noninfective. Yes, Mr. Holmes, the coin- cidence is a remarkable one. But is it
coincidence? Are there not subtle forces at work of which we know little? Are we assured that the
apprehension from which this young man has no doubt suffered terribly since his exposure to its
contagion may not produce a physical effect which simulates that which it fears? At any rate, I
pledge my professional reputation -- But the lady has fainted! I think that Mr. Kent had better be
with her until she recovers from this joyous shock."                  The Adventure of the Lion's
Mane    It is a most singular thing that a problem which was certainly as abstruse and unusual as
any which I have faced in my long professional career should have come to me after my retirement,
and be brought, as it were, to my very door. It occurred after my withdrawal to my little Sussex
home, when I had given myself up entirely to that soothing life of Nature for which I had so often
yearned during the long years spent amid the gloom of London. At this period of my life the good
Watson had passed almost beyond my ken. An occasional week-end visit was the most that I ever saw of
him. Thus I must act as my own chronicler. Ah! had he but been with me, how much he might have made
of so wonderful a happening and of my eventual triumph against every difficulty! As it is, however,
I must needs tell my tale in my own plain way, showing by my words each step upon the difficult road
which lay before me as I searched for the mystery of the Lion's Mane.   My villa is situated upon
the southern slope of the downs, commanding a great view of the Channel. At this point the coast-
line is entirely of chalk cliffs, which can only be descended by a single, long, tortuous path,
which is steep and slippery. At the bottom of the path lie a hundred yards of pebbles and shingle,
even when the tide is at full. Here and there, however, there are curves and hollows which make
splendid swimming- pools filled afresh with each flow. This admirable beach extends for some miles
in each direction, save only at one point where the little cove and village of Fulworth break the
line.   My house is lonely. I, my old housekeeper, and my bees have the estate all to ourselves.
Half a mile off, however, is Harold Stackhurst's well-known coaching establishment, The Gables,
quite a large place, which contains some score of young fellows preparing for various professions,
with a staff of several masters. Stackhurst himself was a well-known rowing Blue in his day, and an
excellent all-round scholar. He and I were always friendly from the day I came to the coast, and he
was the one man who was on such terms with me that we could drop in on each other in the evenings
without an invitation.   Towards the end of July, 1907, there was a severe gale, the wind blowing
up-channel, heaping the seas to the base of the cliffs and leaving a lagoon at the turn of the tide.
On the morning of which I speak the wind had abated, and all Nature was newly washed and fresh. It
was impossible to work upon so delightful a day, and I strolled out before breakfast to enjoy the
exquisite air. I walked along the cliff path which led to the steep descent to the beach. As I
walked I heard a shout behind me, and there was Harold Stackhurst waving his hand in cheery
greeting.   "What a morning, Mr. Holmes! I thought I should see you out."   "Going for a swim, I
see."   "At your old tricks again," he laughed, patting his bulging pocket. "Yes. McPherson started
early, and I expect I may find him there."   Fitzroy McPherson was the science master, a fine
upstanding young fellow whose life had been crippled by heart trouble following rheumatic fever. He
was a natural athlete, however, and excelled in every game which did not throw too great a strain
upon him. Summer and winter he went for his swim, and, as I am a swimmer myself, I have often joined
him.   At this moment we saw the man himself. His head showed above the edge of the cliff where the
path ends. Then his whole figure appeared at the top, staggering like a drunken man. The next
instant he threw up his hands and, with a terrible cry, fell upon his face. Stackhurst and I rushed
forward -- it may have been fifty yards -- and turned him on his back. He was obviously dying. Those
glazed sunken eyes and dreadful livid cheeks could mean nothing else. One glimmer of life came into
his face for an instant, and he uttered two or three words with an eager air of warning. They were
slurred and indistinct, but to my ear the last of them, which burst in a shriek from his lips, were
"the Lion's Mane." It was utterly irrelevant and unintelligible, and yet I could twist the sound
into no other sense. Then he half raised himself from the ground, threw his arms into the air, and
fell forward on his side. He was dead.   My companion was paralyzed by the sudden horror of it, but
I, as may well be imagined, had every sense on the alert. And I had need, for it was speedily
evident that we were in the presence of an extraordinary case. The man was dressed only in his
Burberry overcoat, his trousers, and an unlaced pair of canvas shoes. As he fell over, his Burberry,
which had been simply thrown round his shoulders, slipped off, exposing his trunk. We stared at it
in amazement. His back was covered with dark red lines as though he had been terribly flogged by a
thin wire scourge. The instrument with which this punishment had been inflicted was clearly
flexible, for the long, angry weals curved round his shoulders and ribs. There was blood dripping
down his chin, for he had bitten through his lower lip in the paroxysm of his agony. His drawn and
distorted face told how terrible that agony had been.   I was kneeling and Stackhurst standing by
the body when a shadow fell across us, and we found that Ian Murdoch was by our side. Murdoch was
the mathematical coach at the establish- ment, a tall, dark, thin man, so taciturn and aloof that
none can be said to have been his friend. He seemed to live in some high abstract region of surds
and conic sections, with little to connect him with ordinary life. He was looked upon as an oddity
by the students, and would have been their butt, but there was some strange outlandish blood in the
man, which showed itself not only in his coal-black eyes and swarthy face but also in occa- sional
outbreaks of temper, which could only be described as ferocious. On one occasion, being plagued by a
little dog be- longing to McPherson, he had caught the creature up and hurled it through the plate-
glass window, an action for which Stackhurst would certainly have given him his dismissal had he not
been a very valuable teacher. Such was the strange complex man who now appeared beside us. He seemed
to be honestly shocked at the sight before him, though the incident of the dog may show that there
was no great sympathy between the dead man and himself.   "Poor fellow! Poor fellow! What can I do?
How can I help?"   "Were you with him? Can you tell us what has happened?"   "No, no, I was late
this morning. I was not on the beach at all. I have come straight from The Gables. What can I do?"
"You can hurry to the police-station at Fulworth. Report the matter at once."   Without a word he
made off at top speed, and I proceeded to take the matter in hand, while Stackhurst, dazed at this
tragedy, remained by the body. My first task naturally was to note who was on the beach. From the
top of the path I could see the whole sweep of it, and it was absolutely deserted save that two or
three dark figures could be seen far away moving towards the village of Fulworth. Having satisfied
myself upon this point, I walked slowly down the path. There was clay or soft marl mixed with the
chalk, and every here and there I saw the same footstep, both ascending and descending. No one else
had gone down to the beach by this track that morning. At one place I observed the print of an open
hand with the fingers towards the incline. This could only mean that poor McPherson had fallen as he
ascended. There were rounded depressions, too, which suggested that he had come down upon his knees
more than once. At the bottom of the path was the considerable lagoon left by the retreating tide.
At the side of it McPherson had undressed, for there lay his towel on a rock. It was folded and dry,
so that it would seem that, after all, he had never entered the water. Once or twice as I hunted
round amid the hard shingle I came on little patches of sand where the print of his canvas shoe, and
also of his naked foot, could be seen. The latter fact proved that he had made all ready to bathe,
though the towel indicated that he had not actually done so.   And here was the problem clearly
defined -- as strange a one as had ever confronted me. The man had not been on the beach more than a
quarter of an hour at the most. Stackhurst had followed him from The Gables, so there could be no
doubt about that. He had gone to bathe and had stripped, as the naked foot- steps showed. Then he
had suddenly huddled on his clothes again -- they were all dishevelled and unfastened -- and he had
returned without bathing, or at any rate without drying himself. And the reason for his change of
purpose had been that he had been scourged in some savage, inhuman fashion, tortured until he bit
his lip through in his agony, and was left with only strength enough to crawl away and to die. Who
had done this barbarous deed? There were, it is true, small grottos and caves in the base of the
cliffs, but the low sun shone directly into them, and there was no place for concealment. Then,
again, there were those distant figures on the beach. They seemed too far away to have been
connected with the crime, and the broad lagoon in which McPherson had intended to bathe lay between
him and them, lapping up to the rocks. On the sea two or three fishing- boats were at no great
distance. Their occupants might be exam- ined at our leisure. There were several roads for inquiry,
but none which led to any very obvious goal.   When I at last returned to the body I found that a
little group of wondering folk had gathered round it. Stackhurst was, of course, still there, and
Ian Murdoch had just arrived with Ander- son, the village constable, a big, ginger-moustached man of
the slow, solid Sussex breed -- a breed which covers much good sense under a heavy, silent exterior.
He listened to everything, took note of all we said, and finally drew me aside.   "I'd be glad of
your advice, Mr. Holmes. This is a big thing for me to handle, and I'll hear of it from Lewes if I
go wrong."   I advised him to send for his immediate superior, and for a doctor; also to allow
nothing to be moved, and as few fresh footmarks as possible to be made, until they came. In the
meantime I searched the dead man's pockets. There were his handkerchief, a large knife, and a small
folding card-case. From this projected a slip of paper, which I unfolded and handed to the
constable. There was written on it in a scrawling, feminine hand:                 I will be there,
you may be sure.                                          MAUDIE.  It read like a love affair, an
assignation, though when and where were a blank. The constable replaced it in the card-case and
returned it with the other things to the pockets of the Burberry. Then, as nothing more suggested
itself, I walked back to my house for breakfast, having first arranged that the base of the cliffs
should be thoroughly searched.   Stackhurst was round in an hour or two to tell me that the body had
been removed to The Gables, where the inquest would be held. He brought with him some serious and
definite news. As I expected, nothing had been found in the small caves below the cliff, but he had
examined the papers in McPherson's desk and there were several which showed an intimate
correspondence with a certain Miss Maud Bellamy, of Fulworth. We had then established the identity
of the writer of the note.   "The police have the letters," he explained. "I could not bring them.
But there is no doubt that it was a serious love affair. I see no reason, however, to connect it
with that horrible happening save, indeed, that the lady had made an appointment with him."   "But
hardly at a bathing-pool which all of you were in the habit of using," I remarked.   "It is mere
chance," said he, "that several of the students were not with McPherson."   "Was it mere chance?"
Stackhurst knit his brows in thought.   "Ian Murdoch held them back," said he. "He would insist upon
some algebraic demonstration before breakfast. Poor chap, he is dreadfully cut up about it all."
"And yet I gather that they were not friends."   "At one time they were not. But for a year or more
Murdoch has been as near to McPherson as he ever could be to anyone. He is not of a very sympathetic
disposition by nature."   "So I understand. I seem to remember your telling me once about a quarrel
over the ill-usage of a dog."   "That blew over all right."   "But left some vindictive feeling,
perhaps."   "No, no, I am sure they were real friends."   "Well, then, we must explore the matter of
the girl. Do you know her?"   "Everyone knows her. She is the beauty of the neighbourhood -- a real
beauty, Holmes, who would draw attention everywhere. I knew that McPherson was attracted by her, but
I had no notion that it had gone so far as these letters would seem to indicate."   "But who is
she?"   "She is the daughter of old Tom Bellamy who owns all the boats and bathing-cots at Fulworth.
He was a fisherman to start with, but is now a man of some substance. He and his son William run the
business."   "Shall we walk into Fulworth and see them?"   "On what pretext?"   "Oh, we can easily
find a pretext. After all, this poor man did not ill-use himself in this outrageous way. Some human
hand was on the handle of that scourge, if indeed it was a scourge which inflicted the injuries. His
circle of acquaintances in this lonely place was surely limited. Let us follow it up in every
direction and we can hardly fail to come upon the motive, which in turn should lead us to the
criminal."   It would have been a pleasant walk across the thyme-scented downs had our minds not
been poisoned by the tragedy we had witnessed. The village of Fulworth lies in a hollow curving in a
semicircle round the bay. Behind the old-fashioned hamlet sev- eral modern houses have been built
upon the rising ground. It was to one of these that Stackhurst guided me.   "That's The Haven, as
Bellamy called it. The one with the corner tower and slate roof. Not bad for a man who started with
nothing but --  By Jove, look at that!"   The garden gate of The Haven had opened and a man had
emerged. There was no mistaking that tall, angular, straggling figure. It was Ian Murdoch, the
mathematician. A moment later we confronted him upon the road.   "Hullo!" said Stackhurst. The man
nodded, gave us a side- ways glance from his curious dark eyes, and would have-passed us, but his
principal pulled him up.   "What were you doing there?" he asked.   Murdoch's face flushed with
anger. "I am your subordinate, sir, under your roof. I am not aware that I owe you any account of my
private actions."   Stackhurst's nerves were near the surface after all he had endured. Otherwise,
perhaps, he would have waited. Now he lost his temper completely.   "In the circumstances your
answer is pure impertinence, Mr. Murdoch."   "Your own question might perhaps come under the same
heading."   "This is not the first time that I have had to overlook your insubordinate ways. It will
certainly be the last. You will kindly make fresh arrangements for your future as speedily as you
can."   "I had intended to do so. I have lost to-day the only person who made The Gables habitable."
He strode off upon his way, while Stackhurst, with angry eyes, stood glaring after him. "Is he not
an impossible, intoler- able man?" he cried.   The one thing that impressed itself forcibly upon my
mind was that Mr. Ian Murdoch was taking the first chance to open a path of escape from the scene of
the crime. Suspicion, vague and nebulous, was now beginning to take outline in my mind. Per- haps
the visit to the Bellamys might throw some further light upon the matter. Stackhurst pulled himself
together, and we went forward to the house.   Mr. Bellamy proved to be a middle-aged man with a
flaming red beard. He seemed to be in a very angry mood, and his face was soon as florid as his
hair.   "No, sir, I do not desire any particulars. My son here" -- indicating a powerful young man,
with a heavy, sullen face, in the corner of the sitting-room -- "is of one mind with me that Mr.
McPherson's attentions to Maud were insulting. Yes, sir, the word 'marriage' was never mentioned,
and yet there were letters and meetings, and a great deal more of which neither of us could approve.
She has no mother, and we are her only guardians. We are determined --"   But the words were taken
from his mouth by the appearance of the lady herself. There was no gainsaying that she would have
graced any assembly in the world. Who could have imagined that so rare a flower would grow from such
a root and in such an atmosphere? Women have seldom been an attraction to me, for my brain has
always governed my heart, but I could not look upon her perfect clear-cut face, with all the soft
freshness of the downlands in her delicate colouring, without realizing that no young man would
cross her path unscathed. Such was the girl who had pushed open the door and stood now, wide-eyed
and intense, in front of Harold Stackhurst.   "I know already that Fitzroy is dead," she said. "Do
not be afraid to tell me the particulars."   "This other gentleman of yours let us know the news,"
explained the father.   "There is no reason why my sister should be brought into the matter,"
growled the younger man.   The sister turned a sharp, fierce look upon him. "This is my business,
William. Kindly leave me to manage it in my own way. By all accounts there has been a crime
committed. If I can help to show who did it, it is the least I can do for him who is gone."   She
listened to a short account from my companion, with a composed concentration which showed me that
she possessed strong character as well as great beauty. Maud Bellamy will always remain in my memory
as a most complete and remark- able woman. It seems that she already knew me by sight, for she
turned to me at the end.   "Bring them to justice, Mr. Holmes. You have my sympathy and my help,
whoever they may be." It seemed to me that she glanced defiantly at her father and brother as she
spoke.   "Thank you," said I. "I value a woman's instinct in such matters. You use the word 'they.'
You think that more than one was concerned?"   "I knew Mr. McPherson well enough to be aware that he
was a brave and a strong man. No single person could ever have inflicted such an outrage upon him."
"Might I have one word with you alone?"   "I tell you, Maud, not to mix yourself up in the matter,"
cried her father angrily.   She looked at me helplessly. "What can I do?"   "The whole world will
know the facts presently, so there can be no harm if I discuss them here," said I. "I should have
preferred privacy, but if your father will not allow it he must share the deliberations." Then I
spoke of the note which had been found in the dead man's pocket. "It is sure to be produced at the
inquest. May I ask you to throw any light upon it that you can?"   "I see no reason for mystery,"
she answered. "We were engaged to be married, and we only kept it secret because Fitzroy's uncle,
who is very old and said to be dying, might have disinherited him if he had married against his
wish. There was no other reason."   "You could have told us," growled Mr. Bellamy.   "So I would,
father, if you had ever shown sympathy."   "I object to my girl picking up with men outside her own
station."   "It was your prejudice against him which prevented us from telling you. As to this
appointment" -- she fumbled in her dress and produced a crumpled note -- "it was in answer to this."
DEAREST [ran the message]:       The old place on the beach just after sunset on Tuesday.     It is
the only time I can get away.                                    F.M.    "Tuesday was to-day, and I
had meant to meet him to-night."   I turned over the paper. "This never came by post. How did you
get it?"   "I would rather not answer that question. It has really nothing to do with the matter
which you are investigating. But anything which bears upon that I will most freely answer."   She
was as good as her word, but there was nothing which was helpful in our investigation. She had no
reason to think that her fiance had any hidden enemy, but she admitted that she had had several warm
admirers.   "May I ask if Mr. Ian Murdoch was one of them?"   She blushed and seemed confused.
"There was a time when I thought he was. But that was all changed when he understood the relations
between Fitzroy and myself."   Again the shadow round this strange man seemed to me to be taking
more definite shape. His record must be examined. His rooms must be privately searched. Stackhurst
was a willing collaborator, for in his mind also suspicions were forming. We returned from our visit
to The Haven with the hope that one free end of this tangled skein was already in our hands.   A
week passed. The inquest had thrown no light upon the matter and had been adjourned for further
evidence. Stackhurst had made discreet inquiry about his subordinate, and there had been a
superficial search of his room, but without result. Person- ally, I had gone over the whole ground
again, both physically and mentally, but with no new conclusions. In all my chronicles the reader
will find no case which brought me so completely to the limit of my powers. Even my imagination
could conceive no solution to the mystery. And then there came the incident of the dog.   It was my
old housekeeper who heard of it first by that strange wireless by which such people collect the news
of the countryside.   "Sad story this, sir, about Mr. McPherson's dog," said she one evening.   I do
not encourage such conversations, but the words arrested my attention.   "What of Mr. McPherson's
dog?"   "Dead, sir. Died of grief for its master."   "Who told you this?"   "Why, sir, everyone is
talking of it. It took on terrible, and has eaten nothing for a week. Then to-day two of the young
gentlemen from The Gables found it dead -- down on the beach, sir, at the very place where its
master met his end."   "At the very place." The words stood out clear in my mem- ory. Some dim
perception that the matter was vital rose in my mind. That the dog should die was after the
beautiful, faithful nature of dogs. But "in the very place"! Why should this lonely beach be fatal
to it? Was it possible that it also had been sacrificed to some revengeful feud? Was it possible --?
Yes, the perception was dim, but already something was building up in my mind. In a few minutes I
was on my way to The Gables, where I found Stackhurst in his study. At my request he sent for
Sudbury and Blount, the two students who had found the dog.   "Yes, it lay on the very edge of the
pool," said one of them. "It must have followed the trail of its dead master."   I saw the faithful
little creature, an Airedale terrier, laid out upon the mat in the hall. The body was stiff and
rigid, the eyes projecting, and the limbs contorted. There was agony in every line of it.   From The
Gables I walked down to the bathing-pool. The sun had sunk and the shadow of the great cliff lay
black across the water, which glimmered dully like a sheet of lead. The place was deserted and there
was no sign of life save for two sea-birds circling and screaming overhead. In the fading light I
could dimly make out the little dog's spoor upon the sand round the very rock on which his master's
towel had been laid. For a long time I stood in deep meditation while the shadows grew darker around
me. My mind was filled with racing thoughts. You have known what it was to be in a nightmare in
which you feel that there is some all-important thing for which you search and which you know is
there, though it remains forever just beyond your reach. That was how I felt that evening as I stood
alone by that place of death. Then at last I turned and walked slowly homeward.    I had just
reached the top of the path when it came to me. Like a flash, I remembered the thing for which I had
so eagerly and vainly grasped. You will know, or Watson has written in vain, that I hold a vast
store of out-of-the-way knowledge with- out scientific system, but very available for the needs of
my work. My mind is like a crowded box-room with packets of all sorts stowed away therein -- so many
that I may well have but a vague perception of what was there. I had known that there was something
which might bear upon this matter. It was still vague, but at least I knew how I could make it
clear. It was monstrous, incredible, and yet it was always a possibility. I would test it to the
full.    There is a great garret in my little house which is stuffed with books. It was into this
that I plunged and rummaged for an hour. At the end of that time I emerged with a little chocolate
and silver volume. Eagerly I turned up the chapter of which I had a dim remembrance. Yes, it was
indeed a far-fetched and unlikely proposition, and yet I could not be at rest until I had made sure
if it might, indeed, be so. It was late when I retired, with my mind eagerly awaiting the work of
the morrow.    But that work met with an annoying interruption. I had hardly swallowed my early cup
of tea and was starting for the beach when_ I had a call from Inspector Bardle of the Sussex Con-
stabulary -- a steady, solid, bovine man with thoughtful eyes, which looked at me now with a very
troubled expression.    "I know your immense experience, sir," said he. "This is quite unofficial,
of course, and need go no farther. But I am fairly up against it in this McPherson case. The
question is, shall I make an arrest, or shall I not?"   "Meaning Mr. Ian Murdoch?"   "Yes, sir.
There is really no one else when you come to think of it. That's the advantage of this solitude. We
narrow it down to a very small compass. If he did not do it, then who did?"   "What have you against
him?"   He had gleaned along the same furrows as I had. There was Murdoch's character and the
mystery which seemed to hang round the man. His furious bursts of temper, as shown in the incident
of the dog. The fact that he had quarrelled with McPher- son in the past, and that there was some
reason to think that he might have resented his attentions to Miss Bellamy. He had all my points,
but no fresh ones, save that Murdoch seemed to be making every preparation for departure.   "What
would my position be if I let him slip away with all this evidence against him?" The burly,
phlegmatic man was sorely troubled in his mind.   "Consider," I said, "all the essential gaps in
your case. On the morning of the crime he can surely prove an alibi. He had been with his scholars
till the last moment, and within a few minutes of McPherson's appearance he came upon us from
behind. Then bear in mind the absolute impossibility that he could single-handed have inflicted this
outrage upon a man quite as strong as himself. Finally, there is this question of the instru- ment
with which these injuries were inflicted."   "What could it be but a scourge or flexible whip of
some sort?"   "Have you examined the marks?" I asked.   "I have seen them. So has the doctor."
"But I have examined them very carefully with a lens. They have peculiarities."   "What are they,
Mr. Holmes?"   I stepped to my bureau and brought out an enlarged photo- graph. "This is my method
in such cases," I explained.   "You certainly do things thoroughly, Mr. Holmes."   "I should hardly
be what I am if I did not. Now let us consider this weal which extends round the right shoulder. Do
you observe nothing remarkable?"   "I can't say I do."   "Surely it is evident that it is unequal in
its intensity. There is a dot of extravasated blood here, and another there. There are similar
indications in this other weal down here. What can that mean?"   "I have no idea. Have you?"
"Perhaps I have. Perhaps I haven't. I may be able to say more soon. Anything which will define what
made that mark will bring us a long way towards the criminal."   "It is, of course, an absurd idea,"
said the policeman, "but if a red-hot net of wire had been laid across the back, then these better
marked points would represent where the meshes crossed each other."   "A most ingenious comparison.
Or shall we say a very stiff cat-o'-nine-tails with small hard knots upon it?"   "By Jove, Mr.
Holmes, I think you have hit it."   "Or there may be some very different cause, Mr. Bardle. But your
case is far too weak for an arrest. Besides, we have those last words -- the 'Lion's Mane.' "   "I
have wondered whether Ian --"   "Yes, I have considered that. If the second word had borne any
resemblance to Murdoch -- but it did not. He gave it almost in a shriek. I am sure that it was
'Mane.' "   "Have you no alternative, Mr. Holmes?"   "Perhaps I have. But I do not care to discuss
it until there is something more solid to discuss."   "And when will that be?"   "In an hour --
possibly less."   The inspector rubbed his chin and looked at me with dubious eyes.   "I wish I
could see what was in your mind, Mr. Holmes. Perhaps it's those fishing-boats."   "No, no, they were
too far out."   "Well, then, is it Bellamy and that big son of his? They were not too sweet upon Mr.
McPherson. Could they have done him a mischief?"   "No, no, you won't draw me until I am ready,"
said I with a smile. "Now, Inspector, we each have our own work to do. Perhaps if you were to meet
me here at midday --"   So far we had got when there came the tremendous interrup- tion which was
the beginning of the end.   My outer door was flung open, there were blundering foot- steps in the
passage, and Ian Murdoch staggered into the room, pallid, dishevelled, his clothes in wild disorder,
clawing with his bony hands at the furniture to hold himself erect. "Brandy! Brandy!" he gasped, and
fell groaning upon the sofa.   He was not alone. Behind him came Stackhurst, hatless and panting,
almost as distrait as his companion.   "Yes, yes, brandy!" he cried. "The man is at his last gasp.
It was all I could do to bring him here. He fainted twice upon the way."   Half a tumbler of the raw
spirit brought about a wondrous change. He pushed himself up on one arm and swung his coat from his
shoulders. "For God's sake oil, opium, morphia!" he cried. "Anything to ease this infernal agony!"
The inspector and I cried out at the sight. There, crisscrossed upon the man's naked shoulder, was
the same strange reticulated pattern of red, inflamed lines which had been the death-mark of Fitzroy
McPherson.   The pain was evidently terrible and was more than local, for the sufferer's breathing
would stop for a time, his face would turn black, and then with loud gasps he would clap his hand to
his heart, while his brow dropped beads of sweat. At any moment he might die. More and more brandy
was poured down his throat, each fresh dose bringing him back to life. Pads of cotton-wool soaked in
salad-oil seemed to take the agony from the strange wounds. At last his head fell heavily upon the
cushion. Ex- hausted Nature had taken refuge in its last storehouse of vitality. It was half a sleep
and half a faint, but at least it was ease from pain.   To question him had been impossible, but the
moment we were assured of his condition Stackhurst turned upon me.   "My God!" he cried, "what is
it, Holmes? What is it?"   "Where did you find him?"   "Down on the beach. Exactly where poor
McPherson met his end. If this man's heart had been weak as McPherson's was, he would not be here
now. More than once I thought he was gone as I brought him up. It was too far to The Gables, so I
made for you."   "Did you see him on the beach?"   "I was walking on the cliff when I heard his cry.
He was at the edge of the water, reeling about like a drunken man. I ran down, threw some clothes
about him, and brought him up. For heaven's sake, Holmes, use all the powers you have and spare no
pains to lift the curse from this place, for life is becoming unendurable. Can you, with all your
world-wide reputation, do nothing for us?"   "I think I can, Stackhurst. Come with me now! And you,
Inspector, come along! We will see if we cannot deliver this murderer into your hands."   Leaving
the unconscious man in the charge of my house- keeper, we all three went down to the deadly lagoon.
On the shingle there was piled a little heap of towels and clothes left by the stricken man. Slowly
I walked round the edge of the water, my comrades in Indian file behind me. Most of the pool was
quite shallow, but under the cliff where the beach was hollowed out it was four or five feet deep.
It was to this part that a swimmer would naturally go, for it formed a beautiful pellucid green pool
as clear as crystal. A line of rocks lay above it at the base of the cliff, and along this I led the
way, peering eagerly into the depths beneath me. I had reached the deepest and stillest pool when my
eyes caught that for which they were searching, and I burst into a shout of triumph.   "Cyanea!" I
cried. "Cyanea! Behold the Lion's Mane!"   The strange object at which I pointed did indeed look
like a tangled mass torn from the mane of a lion. It lay upon a rocky shelf some three feet under
the water, a curious waving, vibrat- ing, hairy creature with streaks of silver among its yellow
tresses. It pulsated with a slow, heavy dilation and contraction.   "It has done mischief enough.
Its day is over!" I cried. "Help me, Stackhurst! Let us end the murderer forever."   There was a big
boulder just above the ledge, and we pushed it until it fell with a tremendous splash into the
water. When the ripples had cleared we saw that it had settled upon the ledge below. One flapping
edge of yellow membrane showed that our victim was beneath it. A thick oily scum oozed out from
below the stone and stained the water round, rising slowly to the surface.   "Well, this gets me!"
cried the inspector. "What was it, Mr. Holmes? I'm born and bred in these parts, but I never saw
such a thing. It don't belong to Sussex."   "Just as well for Sussex," I remarked. "It may have been
the southwest gale that brought it up. Come back to my house, both of you, and I will give you the
terrible experience of one who has good reason to remember his own meeting with the same peril of
the seas."   When we reached my study we found that Murdoch was so far recovered that he could sit
up. He was dazed in mind, and every now and then was shaken by a paroxysm of pain. In broken words
he explained that he had no notion what had occurred to him, save that terrific pangs had suddenly
shot through him, and that it had taken all his fortitude to reach the bank.   "Here is a book," I
said, taking up the little volume, "which first brought light into what might have been forever
dark. It is Out of Doors, by the famous observer, J. G. Wood. Wood himself very nearly perished from
contact with this vile creature, so he wrote with a very full knowledge. Cyanea capillata is the
miscreant's full name, and he can be as dangerous to life as, and far more painful than, the bite of
the cobra. Let me briefly give this extract.           "If the bather should see a loose roundish
mass of tawny        membranes and fibres, something like very large handfuls        of lion's mane
and silver paper, let him beware, for this is        the fearful stinger, Cyanea capillata.  Could
our sinister acquaintance be more clearly described?   "He goes on to tell of his own encounter with
one when swimming off the coast of Kent. He found that the creature radiated almost invisible
filaments to the distance of fifty feet, and that anyone within that circumference from the deadly
centre was in danger of death. Even at a distance the effect upon Wood was almost fatal.
"The multitudinous threads caused light scarlet lines upon        the skin which on closer
examination resolved into minute        dots or pustules, each dot charged as it were with a red-hot
needle making its way through the nerves.    "The local pain was, as he explains, the least part of
the exquisite torment.           "Pangs shot through the chest, causing me to fall as if
struck by a bullet. The pulsation would cease, and then the        heart would give six or seven
leaps as if it would force its        way through the chest.    "It nearly killed him, although he
had only been exposed to it in the disturbed ocean and not in the narrow calm waters of a bathing-
pool. He says that he could hardly recognize himself afterwards, so white, wrinkled and shrivelled
was his face. He gulped down brandy, a whole bottleful, and it seems to have saved his life. There
is the book, Inspector. I leave it with you, and you cannot doubt that it contains a full
explanation of the tragedy of poor McPherson."   "And incidentally exonerates me," remarked Ian
Murdoch with a wry smile. "I do not blame you, Inspector, nor you, Mr. Holmes, for your suspicions
were natural. I feel that on the very eve of my arrest I have only cleared myself by sharing the
fate of my poor friend."   "No, Mr. Murdoch. I was already upon the track, and had I been out as
early as I intended I might well have saved you from this terrific experience."   "But how did you
know, Mr. Holmes?"   "I am an omnivorous reader with a strangely retentive mem- ory for trifles.
That phrase 'the Lion's Mane' haunted my mind. I knew that I had seen it somewhere in an unexpected
context. You have seen that it does describe the creature. I have no doubt that it was floating on
the water when McPherson saw it, and that this phrase was the only one by which he could convey to
us a warning as to the creature which had been his death."   "Then I, at least, am cleared," said
Murdoch, rising slowly to his feet. "There are one or two words of explanation which I should give,
for I know the direction in which your inquiries have run. It is true that I loved this lady, but
from the day when she chose my friend McPherson my one desire was to help her to happiness. I was
well content to stand aside and act as their go-between. Often I carried their messages, and it was
because I was in their confidence and because she was so dear to me that I hastened to tell her of
my friend's death, lest someone should forestall me in a more sudden and heartless manner. She would
not tell you, sir, of our relations lest you should disapprove and I might suffer. But with your
leave I must try to get back to The Gables, for my bed will be very welcome."   Stackhurst held out
his hand. "Our nerves have all been at concert-pitch," said he. "Forgive what is past, Murdoch. We
shall understand each other better in the future." They passed out together with their arms linked
in friendly fashion. The  inspector remained, staring at me in silence with his ox-like eyes.
"Well, you've done it!" he cried at last. "I had read of you, but I never believed it. It's
wonderful!"   I was forced to shake my head. To accept such praise was to lower one's own standards.
"I was slow at the outset -- culpably slow. Had the body been found in the water I could hardly have
missed it. It was the towel which misled me. The poor fellow had never thought to dry himself, and
so I in turn was led to believe that he had never been in the water. Why, then, should the attack of
any water creature suggest itself to me? That was where I went astray. Well, well, Inspector, I
often ventured to chaff you gentlemen of the police force, but Cyanea capillata very nearly avenged
Scot- land Yard."