ADVENTURE VI. THE MAN WITH THE TWISTED LIP
Isa Whitney, brother of the late Elias Whitney, D.D., Principal of the Theological College of St. George's, was
much addicted to opium. The habit grew upon him, as I understand, from some foolish freak when he was at
college; for having read De Quincey's description of his dreams and sensations, he had drenched his tobacco
with laudanum in an attempt to produce the same effects. He found, as so many more have done, that the
practice is easier to attain than to get rid of, and for many years he continued to be a slave to the drug, an
object of mingled horror and pity to his friends and relatives. I can see him now, with yellow, pasty face,
drooping lids, and pin-point pupils, all huddled in a chair, the wreck and ruin of a noble man.
One night--it was in June, '89--there came a ring to my bell, about the hour when a man gives his first yawn
and glances at the clock. I sat up in my chair, and my wife laid her needle-work down in her lap and made a
little face of disappointment.
"A patient!" said she. "You'll have to go out."
I groaned, for I was newly come back from a weary day.
We heard the door open, a few hurried words, and then quick steps upon the linoleum. Our own door flew
open, and a lady, clad in some dark-coloured stuff, with a black veil, entered the room.
"You will excuse my calling so late," she began, and then, suddenly losing her self-control, she ran forward,
threw her arms about my wife's neck, and sobbed upon her shoulder. "Oh, I'm in such trouble!" she cried; "I
do so want a little help."
"Why," said my wife, pulling up her veil, "it is Kate Whitney. How you startled me, Kate! I had not an idea
who you were when you came in."
"I didn't know what to do, so I came straight to you." That was always the way. Folk who were in grief came
to my wife like birds to a light-house.
"It was very sweet of you to come. Now, you must have some wine and water, and sit here comfortably and
tell us all about it. Or should you rather that I sent James off to bed?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 72
"Oh, no, no! I want the doctor's advice and help, too. It's about Isa. He has not been home for two days. I am
so frightened about him!"
It was not the first time that she had spoken to us of her husband's trouble, to me as a doctor, to my wife as an
old friend and school companion. We soothed and comforted her by such words as we could find. Did she
know where her husband was? Was it possible that we could bring him back to her?
It seems that it was. She had the surest information that of late he had, when the fit was on him, made use of
an opium den in the farthest east of the City. Hitherto his orgies had always been confined to one day, and he
had come back, twitching and shattered, in the evening. But now the spell had been upon him eight-and-forty
hours, and he lay there, doubtless among the dregs of the docks, breathing in the poison or sleeping off the
effects. There he was to be found, she was sure of it, at the Bar of Gold, in Upper Swandam Lane. But what
was she to do? How could she, a young and timid woman, make her way into such a place and pluck her
husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?
There was the case, and of course there was but one way out of it. Might I not escort her to this place? And
then, as a second thought, why should she come at all? I was Isa Whitney's medical adviser, and as such I had
influence over him. I could manage it better if I were alone. I promised her on my word that I would send him
home in a cab within two hours if he were indeed at the address which she had given me. And so in ten
minutes I had left my armchair and cheery sitting-room behind me, and was speeding eastward in a hansom
on a strange errand, as it seemed to me at the time, though the future only could show how strange it was to
be.
But there was no great difficulty in the first stage of my adventure. Upper Swandam Lane is a vile alley
lurking behind the high wharves which line the north side of the river to the east of London Bridge. Between a
slop-shop and a gin-shop, approached by a steep flight of steps leading down to a black gap like the mouth of
a cave, I found the den of which I was in search. Ordering my cab to wait, I passed down the steps, worn
hollow in the centre by the ceaseless tread of drunken feet; and by the light of a flickering oil-lamp above the
door I found the latch and made my way into a long, low room, thick and heavy with the brown opium smoke,
and terraced with wooden berths, like the forecastle of an emigrant ship.
Through the gloom one could dimly catch a glimpse of bodies lying in strange fantastic poses, bowed
shoulders, bent knees, heads thrown back, and chins pointing upward, with here and there a dark, lack-lustre
eye turned upon the newcomer. Out of the black shadows there glimmered little red circles of light, now
bright, now faint, as the burning poison waxed or waned in the bowls of the metal pipes. The most lay silent,
but some muttered to themselves, and others talked together in a strange, low, monotonous voice, their
conversation coming in gushes, and then suddenly tailing off into silence, each mumbling out his own
thoughts and paying little heed to the words of his neighbour. At the farther end was a small brazier of
burning charcoal, beside which on a three-legged wooden stool there sat a tall, thin old man, with his jaw
resting upon his two fists, and his elbows upon his knees, staring into the fire.
As I entered, a sallow Malay attendant had hurried up with a pipe for me and a supply of the drug, beckoning
me to an empty berth.
"Thank you. I have not come to stay," said I. "There is a friend of mine here, Mr. Isa Whitney, and I wish to
speak with him."
There was a movement and an exclamation from my right, and peering through the gloom, I saw Whitney,
pale, haggard, and unkempt, staring out at me.
"My God! It's Watson," said he. He was in a pitiable state of reaction, with every nerve in a twitter. "I say,
Watson, what o'clock is it?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 73
"Nearly eleven."
"Of what day?"
"Of Friday, June 19th."
"Good heavens! I thought it was Wednesday. It is Wednesday. What d'you want to frighten a chap for?" He
sank his face onto his arms and began to sob in a high treble key.
"I tell you that it is Friday, man. Your wife has been waiting this two days for you. You should be ashamed of
yourself!"
"So I am. But you've got mixed, Watson, for I have only been here a few hours, three pipes, four pipes--I
forget how many. But I'll go home with you. I wouldn't frighten Kate--poor little Kate. Give me your hand!
Have you a cab?"
"Yes, I have one waiting."
"Then I shall go in it. But I must owe something. Find what I owe, Watson. I am all off colour. I can do
nothing for myself."
I walked down the narrow passage between the double row of sleepers, holding my breath to keep out the vile,
stupefying fumes of the drug, and looking about for the manager. As I passed the tall man who sat by the
brazier I felt a sudden pluck at my skirt, and a low voice whispered, "Walk past me, and then look back at
me." The words fell quite distinctly upon my ear. I glanced down. They could only have come from the old
man at my side, and yet he sat now as absorbed as ever, very thin, very wrinkled, bent with age, an opium
pipe dangling down from between his knees, as though it had dropped in sheer lassitude from his fingers. I
took two steps forward and looked back. It took all my self-control to prevent me from breaking out into a cry
of astonishment. He had turned his back so that none could see him but I. His form had filled out, his wrinkles
were gone, the dull eyes had regained their fire, and there, sitting by the fire and grinning at my surprise, was
none other than Sherlock Holmes. He made a slight motion to me to approach him, and instantly, as he turned
his face half round to the company once more, subsided into a doddering, loose-lipped senility.
"Holmes!" I whispered, "what on earth are you doing in this den?"
"As low as you can," he answered; "I have excellent ears. If you would have the great kindness to get rid of
that sottish friend of yours I should be exceedingly glad to have a little talk with you."
"I have a cab outside."
"Then pray send him home in it. You may safely trust him, for he appears to be too limp to get into any
mischief. I should recommend you also to send a note by the cabman to your wife to say that you have thrown
in your lot with me. If you will wait outside, I shall be with you in five minutes."
It was difficult to refuse any of Sherlock Holmes' requests, for they were always so exceedingly definite, and
put forward with such a quiet air of mastery. I felt, however, that when Whitney was once confined in the cab
my mission was practically accomplished; and for the rest, I could not wish anything better than to be
associated with my friend in one of those singular adventures which were the normal condition of his
existence. In a few minutes I had written my note, paid Whitney's bill, led him out to the cab, and seen him
driven through the darkness. In a very short time a decrepit figure had emerged from the opium den, and I was
walking down the street with Sherlock Holmes. For two streets he shuffled along with a bent back and an
uncertain foot. Then, glancing quickly round, he straightened himself out and burst into a hearty fit ofThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 74
laughter.
"I suppose, Watson," said he, "that you imagine that I have added opium-smoking to cocaine injections, and
all the other little weaknesses on which you have favoured me with your medical views."
"I was certainly surprised to find you there."
"But not more so than I to find you."
"I came to find a friend."
"And I to find an enemy."
"An enemy?"
"Yes; one of my natural enemies, or, shall I say, my natural prey. Briefly, Watson, I am in the midst of a very
remarkable inquiry, and I have hoped to find a clue in the incoherent ramblings of these sots, as I have done
before now. Had I been recognised in that den my life would not have been worth an hour's purchase; for I
have used it before now for my own purposes, and the rascally Lascar who runs it has sworn to have
vengeance upon me. There is a trap-door at the back of that building, near the corner of Paul's Wharf, which
could tell some strange tales of what has passed through it upon the moonless nights."
"What! You do not mean bodies?"
"Ay, bodies, Watson. We should be rich men if we had 1000 pounds for every poor devil who has been done
to death in that den. It is the vilest murder-trap on the whole riverside, and I fear that Neville St. Clair has
entered it never to leave it more. But our trap should be here." He put his two forefingers between his teeth
and whistled shrilly--a signal which was answered by a similar whistle from the distance, followed shortly by
the rattle of wheels and the clink of horses' hoofs.
"Now, Watson," said Holmes, as a tall dog-cart dashed up through the gloom, throwing out two golden
tunnels of yellow light from its side lanterns. "You'll come with me, won't you?"
"If I can be of use."
"Oh, a trusty comrade is always of use; and a chronicler still more so. My room at The Cedars is a
double-bedded one."
"The Cedars?"
"Yes; that is Mr. St. Clair's house. I am staying there while I conduct the inquiry."
"Where is it, then?"
"Near Lee, in Kent. We have a seven-mile drive before us."
"But I am all in the dark."
"Of course you are. You'll know all about it presently. Jump up here. All right, John; we shall not need you.
Here's half a crown. Look out for me to-morrow, about eleven. Give her her head. So long, then!"
He flicked the horse with his whip, and we dashed away through the endless succession of sombre andThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 75
deserted streets, which widened gradually, until we were flying across a broad balustraded bridge, with the
murky river flowing sluggishly beneath us. Beyond lay another dull wilderness of bricks and mortar, its
silence broken only by the heavy, regular footfall of the policeman, or the songs and shouts of some belated
party of revellers. A dull wrack was drifting slowly across the sky, and a star or two twinkled dimly here and
there through the rifts of the clouds. Holmes drove in silence, with his head sunk upon his breast, and the air
of a man who is lost in thought, while I sat beside him, curious to learn what this new quest might be which
seemed to tax his powers so sorely, and yet afraid to break in upon the current of his thoughts. We had driven
several miles, and were beginning to get to the fringe of the belt of suburban villas, when he shook himself,
shrugged his shoulders, and lit up his pipe with the air of a man who has satisfied himself that he is acting for
the best.
"You have a grand gift of silence, Watson," said he. "It makes you quite invaluable as a companion. 'Pon my
word, it is a great thing for me to have someone to talk to, for my own thoughts are not over-pleasant. I was
wondering what I should say to this dear little woman to-night when she meets me at the door."
"You forget that I know nothing about it."
"I shall just have time to tell you the facts of the case before we get to Lee. It seems absurdly simple, and yet,
somehow I can get nothing to go upon. There's plenty of thread, no doubt, but I can't get the end of it into my
hand. Now, I'll state the case clearly and concisely to you, Watson, and maybe you can see a spark where all is
dark to me."
"Proceed, then."
"Some years ago--to be definite, in May, 1884--there came to Lee a gentleman, Neville St. Clair by name,
who appeared to have plenty of money. He took a large villa, laid out the grounds very nicely, and lived
generally in good style. By degrees he made friends in the neighbourhood, and in 1887 he married the
daughter of a local brewer, by whom he now has two children. He had no occupation, but was interested in
several companies and went into town as a rule in the morning, returning by the 5:14 from Cannon Street
every night. Mr. St. Clair is now thirty-seven years of age, is a man of temperate habits, a good husband, a
very affectionate father, and a man who is popular with all who know him. I may add that his whole debts at
the present moment, as far as we have been able to ascertain, amount to 88 pounds 10s., while he has 220
pounds standing to his credit in the Capital and Counties Bank. There is no reason, therefore, to think that
money troubles have been weighing upon his mind.
"Last Monday Mr. Neville St. Clair went into town rather earlier than usual, remarking before he started that
he had two important commissions to perform, and that he would bring his little boy home a box of bricks.
Now, by the merest chance, his wife received a telegram upon this same Monday, very shortly after his
departure, to the effect that a small parcel of considerable value which she had been expecting was waiting for
her at the offices of the Aberdeen Shipping Company. Now, if you are well up in your London, you will know
that the office of the company is in Fresno Street, which branches out of Upper Swandam Lane, where you
found me to-night. Mrs. St. Clair had her lunch, started for the City, did some shopping, proceeded to the
company's office, got her packet, and found herself at exactly 4:35 walking through Swandam Lane on her
way back to the station. Have you followed me so far?"
"It is very clear."
"If you remember, Monday was an exceedingly hot day, and Mrs. St. Clair walked slowly, glancing about in
the hope of seeing a cab, as she did not like the neighbourhood in which she found herself. While she was
walking in this way down Swandam Lane, she suddenly heard an ejaculation or cry, and was struck cold to
see her husband looking down at her and, as it seemed to her, beckoning to her from a second-floor window.
The window was open, and she distinctly saw his face, which she describes as being terribly agitated. HeThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 76
waved his hands frantically to her, and then vanished from the window so suddenly that it seemed to her that
he had been plucked back by some irresistible force from behind. One singular point which struck her quick
feminine eye was that although he wore some dark coat, such as he had started to town in, he had on neither
collar nor necktie.
"Convinced that something was amiss with him, she rushed down the steps--for the house was none other than
the opium den in which you found me to-night--and running through the front room she attempted to ascend
the stairs which led to the first floor. At the foot of the stairs, however, she met this Lascar scoundrel of whom
I have spoken, who thrust her back and, aided by a Dane, who acts as assistant there, pushed her out into the
street. Filled with the most maddening doubts and fears, she rushed down the lane and, by rare good-fortune,
met in Fresno Street a number of constables with an inspector, all on their way to their beat. The inspector and
two men accompanied her back, and in spite of the continued resistance of the proprietor, they made their way
to the room in which Mr. St. Clair had last been seen. There was no sign of him there. In fact, in the whole of
that floor there was no one to be found save a crippled wretch of hideous aspect, who, it seems, made his
home there. Both he and the Lascar stoutly swore that no one else had been in the front room during the
afternoon. So determined was their denial that the inspector was staggered, and had almost come to believe
that Mrs. St. Clair had been deluded when, with a cry, she sprang at a small deal box which lay upon the table
and tore the lid from it. Out there fell a cascade of children's bricks. It was the toy which he had promised to
bring home.
"This discovery, and the evident confusion which the cripple showed, made the inspector realise that the
matter was serious. The rooms were carefully examined, and results all pointed to an abominable crime. The
front room was plainly furnished as a sitting-room and led into a small bedroom, which looked out upon the
back of one of the wharves. Between the wharf and the bedroom window is a narrow strip, which is dry at low
tide but is covered at high tide with at least four and a half feet of water. The bedroom window was a broad
one and opened from below. On examination traces of blood were to be seen upon the windowsill, and several
scattered drops were visible upon the wooden floor of the bedroom. Thrust away behind a curtain in the front
room were all the clothes of Mr. Neville St. Clair, with the exception of his coat. His boots, his socks, his hat,
and his watch--all were there. There were no signs of violence upon any of these garments, and there were no
other traces of Mr. Neville St. Clair. Out of the window he must apparently have gone for no other exit could
be discovered, and the ominous bloodstains upon the sill gave little promise that he could save himself by
swimming, for the tide was at its very highest at the moment of the tragedy.
"And now as to the villains who seemed to be immediately implicated in the matter. The Lascar was known to
be a man of the vilest antecedents, but as, by Mrs. St. Clair's story, he was known to have been at the foot of
the stair within a very few seconds of her husband's appearance at the window, he could hardly have been
more than an accessory to the crime. His defence was one of absolute ignorance, and he protested that he had
no knowledge as to the doings of Hugh Boone, his lodger, and that he could not account in any way for the
presence of the missing gentleman's clothes.
"So much for the Lascar manager. Now for the sinister cripple who lives upon the second floor of the opium
den, and who was certainly the last human being whose eyes rested upon Neville St. Clair. His name is Hugh
Boone, and his hideous face is one which is familiar to every man who goes much to the City. He is a
professional beggar, though in order to avoid the police regulations he pretends to a small trade in wax vestas.
Some little distance down Threadneedle Street, upon the left-hand side, there is, as you may have remarked, a
small angle in the wall. Here it is that this creature takes his daily seat, cross-legged with his tiny stock of
matches on his lap, and as he is a piteous spectacle a small rain of charity descends into the greasy leather cap
which lies upon the pavement beside him. I have watched the fellow more than once before ever I thought of
making his professional acquaintance, and I have been surprised at the harvest which he has reaped in a short
time. His appearance, you see, is so remarkable that no one can pass him without observing him. A shock of
orange hair, a pale face disfigured by a horrible scar, which, by its contraction, has turned up the outer edge of
his upper lip, a bulldog chin, and a pair of very penetrating dark eyes, which present a singular contrast to theThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 77
colour of his hair, all mark him out from amid the common crowd of mendicants and so, too, does his wit, for
he is ever ready with a reply to any piece of chaff which may be thrown at him by the passers-by. This is the
man whom we now learn to have been the lodger at the opium den, and to have been the last man to see the
gentleman of whom we are in quest."
"But a cripple!" said I. "What could he have done single-handed against a man in the prime of life?"
"He is a cripple in the sense that he walks with a limp; but in other respects he appears to be a powerful and
well-nurtured man. Surely your medical experience would tell you, Watson, that weakness in one limb is
often compensated for by exceptional strength in the others."
"Pray continue your narrative."
"Mrs. St. Clair had fainted at the sight of the blood upon the window, and she was escorted home in a cab by
the police, as her presence could be of no help to them in their investigations. Inspector Barton, who had
charge of the case, made a very careful examination of the premises, but without finding anything which
threw any light upon the matter. One mistake had been made in not arresting Boone instantly, as he was
allowed some few minutes during which he might have communicated with his friend the Lascar, but this
fault was soon remedied, and he was seized and searched, without anything being found which could
incriminate him. There were, it is true, some blood-stains upon his right shirt-sleeve, but he pointed to his
ring-finger, which had been cut near the nail, and explained that the bleeding came from there, adding that he
had been to the window not long before, and that the stains which had been observed there came doubtless
from the same source. He denied strenuously having ever seen Mr. Neville St. Clair and swore that the
presence of the clothes in his room was as much a mystery to him as to the police. As to Mrs. St. Clair's
assertion that she had actually seen her husband at the window, he declared that she must have been either
mad or dreaming. He was removed, loudly protesting, to the police-station, while the inspector remained upon
the premises in the hope that the ebbing tide might afford some fresh clue.
"And it did, though they hardly found upon the mud-bank what they had feared to find. It was Neville St.
Clair's coat, and not Neville St. Clair, which lay uncovered as the tide receded. And what do you think they
found in the pockets?"
"I cannot imagine."
"No, I don't think you would guess. Every pocket stuffed with pennies and half-pennies--421 pennies and 270
half-pennies. It was no wonder that it had not been swept away by the tide. But a human body is a different
matter. There is a fierce eddy between the wharf and the house. It seemed likely enough that the weighted coat
had remained when the stripped body had been sucked away into the river."
"But I understand that all the other clothes were found in the room. Would the body be dressed in a coat
alone?"
"No, sir, but the facts might be met speciously enough. Suppose that this man Boone had thrust Neville St.
Clair through the window, there is no human eye which could have seen the deed. What would he do then? It
would of course instantly strike him that he must get rid of the tell-tale garments. He would seize the coat,
then, and be in the act of throwing it out, when it would occur to him that it would swim and not sink. He has
little time, for he has heard the scuffle downstairs when the wife tried to force her way up, and perhaps he has
already heard from his Lascar confederate that the police are hurrying up the street. There is not an instant to
be lost. He rushes to some secret hoard, where he has accumulated the fruits of his beggary, and he stuffs all
the coins upon which he can lay his hands into the pockets to make sure of the coat's sinking. He throws it out,
and would have done the same with the other garments had not he heard the rush of steps below, and only just
had time to close the window when the police appeared."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 78
"It certainly sounds feasible."
"Well, we will take it as a working hypothesis for want of a better. Boone, as I have told you, was arrested and
taken to the station, but it could not be shown that there had ever before been anything against him. He had for
years been known as a professional beggar, but his life appeared to have been a very quiet and innocent one.
There the matter stands at present, and the questions which have to be solved--what Neville St. Clair was
doing in the opium den, what happened to him when there, where is he now, and what Hugh Boone had to do
with his disappearance--are all as far from a solution as ever. I confess that I cannot recall any case within my
experience which looked at the first glance so simple and yet which presented such difficulties."
While Sherlock Holmes had been detailing this singular series of events, we had been whirling through the
outskirts of the great town until the last straggling houses had been left behind, and we rattled along with a
country hedge upon either side of us. Just as he finished, however, we drove through two scattered villages,
where a few lights still glimmered in the windows.
"We are on the outskirts of Lee," said my companion. "We have touched on three English counties in our
short drive, starting in Middlesex, passing over an angle of Surrey, and ending in Kent. See that light among
the trees? That is The Cedars, and beside that lamp sits a woman whose anxious ears have already, I have little
doubt, caught the clink of our horse's feet."
"But why are you not conducting the case from Baker Street?" I asked.
"Because there are many inquiries which must be made out here. Mrs. St. Clair has most kindly put two rooms
at my disposal, and you may rest assured that she will have nothing but a welcome for my friend and
colleague. I hate to meet her, Watson, when I have no news of her husband. Here we are. Whoa, there, whoa!"
We had pulled up in front of a large villa which stood within its own grounds. A stable-boy had run out to the
horse's head, and springing down, I followed Holmes up the small, winding gravel-drive which led to the
house. As we approached, the door flew open, and a little blonde woman stood in the opening, clad in some
sort of light mousseline de soie, with a touch of fluffy pink chiffon at her neck and wrists. She stood with her
figure outlined against the flood of light, one hand upon the door, one half-raised in her eagerness, her body
slightly bent, her head and face protruded, with eager eyes and parted lips, a standing question.
"Well?" she cried, "well?" And then, seeing that there were two of us, she gave a cry of hope which sank into
a groan as she saw that my companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders.
"No good news?"
"None."
"No bad?"
"No."
"Thank God for that. But come in. You must be weary, for you have had a long day."
"This is my friend, Dr. Watson. He has been of most vital use to me in several of my cases, and a lucky
chance has made it possible for me to bring him out and associate him with this investigation."
"I am delighted to see you," said she, pressing my hand warmly. "You will, I am sure, forgive anything that
may be wanting in our arrangements, when you consider the blow which has come so suddenly upon us."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 79
"My dear madam," said I, "I am an old campaigner, and if I were not I can very well see that no apology is
needed. If I can be of any assistance, either to you or to my friend here, I shall be indeed happy."
"Now, Mr. Sherlock Holmes," said the lady as we entered a well-lit dining-room, upon the table of which a
cold supper had been laid out, "I should very much like to ask you one or two plain questions, to which I beg
that you will give a plain answer."
"Certainly, madam."
"Do not trouble about my feelings. I am not hysterical, nor given to fainting. I simply wish to hear your real,
real opinion."
"Upon what point?"
"In your heart of hearts, do you think that Neville is alive?"
Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question. "Frankly, now!" she repeated, standing upon the
rug and looking keenly down at him as he leaned back in a basket-chair.
"Frankly, then, madam, I do not."
"You think that he is dead?"
"I do."
"Murdered?"
"I don't say that. Perhaps."
"And on what day did he meet his death?"
"On Monday."
"Then perhaps, Mr. Holmes, you will be good enough to explain how it is that I have received a letter from
him to-day."
Sherlock Holmes sprang out of his chair as if he had been galvanised.
"What!" he roared.
"Yes, to-day." She stood smiling, holding up a little slip of paper in the air.
"May I see it?"
"Certainly."
He snatched it from her in his eagerness, and smoothing it out upon the table he drew over the lamp and
examined it intently. I had left my chair and was gazing at it over his shoulder. The envelope was a very
coarse one and was stamped with the Gravesend postmark and with the date of that very day, or rather of the
day before, for it was considerably after midnight.
"Coarse writing," murmured Holmes. "Surely this is not your husband's writing, madam."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 80
"No, but the enclosure is."
"I perceive also that whoever addressed the envelope had to go and inquire as to the address."
"How can you tell that?"
"The name, you see, is in perfectly black ink, which has dried itself. The rest is of the greyish colour, which
shows that blotting-paper has been used. If it had been written straight off, and then blotted, none would be of
a deep black shade. This man has written the name, and there has then been a pause before he wrote the
address, which can only mean that he was not familiar with it. It is, of course, a trifle, but there is nothing so
important as trifles. Let us now see the letter. Ha! there has been an enclosure here!"
"Yes, there was a ring. His signet-ring."
"And you are sure that this is your husband's hand?"
"One of his hands."
"One?"
"His hand when he wrote hurriedly. It is very unlike his usual writing, and yet I know it well."
"'Dearest do not be frightened. All will come well. There is a huge error which it may take some little time to
rectify. Wait in patience.--NEVILLE.' Written in pencil upon the fly-leaf of a book, octavo size, no
water-mark. Hum! Posted to-day in Gravesend by a man with a dirty thumb. Ha! And the flap has been
gummed, if I am not very much in error, by a person who had been chewing tobacco. And you have no doubt
that it is your husband's hand, madam?"
"None. Neville wrote those words."
"And they were posted to-day at Gravesend. Well, Mrs. St. Clair, the clouds lighten, though I should not
venture to say that the danger is over."
"But he must be alive, Mr. Holmes."
"Unless this is a clever forgery to put us on the wrong scent. The ring, after all, proves nothing. It may have
been taken from him."
"No, no; it is, it is his very own writing!"
"Very well. It may, however, have been written on Monday and only posted to-day."
"That is possible."
"If so, much may have happened between."
"Oh, you must not discourage me, Mr. Holmes. I know that all is well with him. There is so keen a sympathy
between us that I should know if evil came upon him. On the very day that I saw him last he cut himself in the
bedroom, and yet I in the dining-room rushed upstairs instantly with the utmost certainty that something had
happened. Do you think that I would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of his death?"
"I have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman may be more valuable than the conclusionThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 81
of an analytical reasoner. And in this letter you certainly have a very strong piece of evidence to corroborate
your view. But if your husband is alive and able to write letters, why should he remain away from you?"
"I cannot imagine. It is unthinkable."
"And on Monday he made no remarks before leaving you?"
"No."
"And you were surprised to see him in Swandam Lane?"
"Very much so."
"Was the window open?"
"Yes."
"Then he might have called to you?"
"He might."
"He only, as I understand, gave an inarticulate cry?"
"Yes."
"A call for help, you thought?"
"Yes. He waved his hands."
"But it might have been a cry of surprise. Astonishment at the unexpected sight of you might cause him to
throw up his hands?"
"It is possible."
"And you thought he was pulled back?"
"He disappeared so suddenly."
"He might have leaped back. You did not see anyone else in the room?"
"No, but this horrible man confessed to having been there, and the Lascar was at the foot of the stairs."
"Quite so. Your husband, as far as you could see, had his ordinary clothes on?"
"But without his collar or tie. I distinctly saw his bare throat."
"Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?"
"Never."
"Had he ever showed any signs of having taken opium?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 82
"Never."
"Thank you, Mrs. St. Clair. Those are the principal points about which I wished to be absolutely clear. We
shall now have a little supper and then retire, for we may have a very busy day to-morrow."
A large and comfortable double-bedded room had been placed at our disposal, and I was quickly between the
sheets, for I was weary after my night of adventure. Sherlock Holmes was a man, however, who, when he had
an unsolved problem upon his mind, would go for days, and even for a week, without rest, turning it over,
rearranging his facts, looking at it from every point of view until he had either fathomed it or convinced
himself that his data were insufficient. It was soon evident to me that he was now preparing for an all-night
sitting. He took off his coat and waistcoat, put on a large blue dressing-gown, and then wandered about the
room collecting pillows from his bed and cushions from the sofa and armchairs. With these he constructed a
sort of Eastern divan, upon which he perched himself cross-legged, with an ounce of shag tobacco and a box
of matches laid out in front of him. In the dim light of the lamp I saw him sitting there, an old briar pipe
between his lips, his eyes fixed vacantly upon the corner of the ceiling, the blue smoke curling up from him,
silent, motionless, with the light shining upon his strong-set aquiline features. So he sat as I dropped off to
sleep, and so he sat when a sudden ejaculation caused me to wake up, and I found the summer sun shining
into the apartment. The pipe was still between his lips, the smoke still curled upward, and the room was full of
a dense tobacco haze, but nothing remained of the heap of shag which I had seen upon the previous night.
"Awake, Watson?" he asked.
"Yes."
"Game for a morning drive?"
"Certainly."
"Then dress. No one is stirring yet, but I know where the stable-boy sleeps, and we shall soon have the trap
out." He chuckled to himself as he spoke, his eyes twinkled, and he seemed a different man to the sombre
thinker of the previous night.
As I dressed I glanced at my watch. It was no wonder that no one was stirring. It was twenty-five minutes past
four. I had hardly finished when Holmes returned with the news that the boy was putting in the horse.
"I want to test a little theory of mine," said he, pulling on his boots. "I think, Watson, that you are now
standing in the presence of one of the most absolute fools in Europe. I deserve to be kicked from here to
Charing Cross. But I think I have the key of the affair now."
"And where is it?" I asked, smiling.
"In the bathroom," he answered. "Oh, yes, I am not joking," he continued, seeing my look of incredulity. "I
have just been there, and I have taken it out, and I have got it in this Gladstone bag. Come on, my boy, and we
shall see whether it will not fit the lock."
We made our way downstairs as quietly as possible, and out into the bright morning sunshine. In the road
stood our horse and trap, with the half-clad stable-boy waiting at the head. We both sprang in, and away we
dashed down the London Road. A few country carts were stirring, bearing in vegetables to the metropolis, but
the lines of villas on either side were as silent and lifeless as some city in a dream.
"It has been in some points a singular case," said Holmes, flicking the horse on into a gallop. "I confess that I
have been as blind as a mole, but it is better to learn wisdom late than never to learn it at all."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 83
In town the earliest risers were just beginning to look sleepily from their windows as we drove through the
streets of the Surrey side. Passing down the Waterloo Bridge Road we crossed over the river, and dashing up
Wellington Street wheeled sharply to the right and found ourselves in Bow Street. Sherlock Holmes was well
known to the force, and the two constables at the door saluted him. One of them held the horse's head while
the other led us in.
"Who is on duty?" asked Holmes.
"Inspector Bradstreet, sir."
"Ah, Bradstreet, how are you?" A tall, stout official had come down the stone-flagged passage, in a peaked
cap and frogged jacket. "I wish to have a quiet word with you, Bradstreet." "Certainly, Mr. Holmes. Step into
my room here." It was a small, office-like room, with a huge ledger upon the table, and a telephone projecting
from the wall. The inspector sat down at his desk.
"What can I do for you, Mr. Holmes?"
"I called about that beggarman, Boone--the one who was charged with being concerned in the disappearance
of Mr. Neville St. Clair, of Lee."
"Yes. He was brought up and remanded for further inquiries."
"So I heard. You have him here?"
"In the cells."
"Is he quiet?"
"Oh, he gives no trouble. But he is a dirty scoundrel."
"Dirty?"
"Yes, it is all we can do to make him wash his hands, and his face is as black as a tinker's. Well, when once
his case has been settled, he will have a regular prison bath; and I think, if you saw him, you would agree with
me that he needed it."
"I should like to see him very much."
"Would you? That is easily done. Come this way. You can leave your bag."
"No, I think that I'll take it."
"Very good. Come this way, if you please." He led us down a passage, opened a barred door, passed down a
winding stair, and brought us to a whitewashed corridor with a line of doors on each side.
"The third on the right is his," said the inspector. "Here it is!" He quietly shot back a panel in the upper part of
the door and glanced through.
"He is asleep," said he. "You can see him very well."
We both put our eyes to the grating. The prisoner lay with his face towards us, in a very deep sleep, breathing
slowly and heavily. He was a middle-sized man, coarsely clad as became his calling, with a coloured shirtThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 84
protruding through the rent in his tattered coat. He was, as the inspector had said, extremely dirty, but the
grime which covered his face could not conceal its repulsive ugliness. A broad wheal from an old scar ran
right across it from eye to chin, and by its contraction had turned up one side of the upper lip, so that three
teeth were exposed in a perpetual snarl. A shock of very bright red hair grew low over his eyes and forehead.
"He's a beauty, isn't he?" said the inspector.
"He certainly needs a wash," remarked Holmes. "I had an idea that he might, and I took the liberty of bringing
the tools with me." He opened the Gladstone bag as he spoke, and took out, to my astonishment, a very large
bath-sponge.
"He! he! You are a funny one," chuckled the inspector.
"Now, if you will have the great goodness to open that door very quietly, we will soon make him cut a much
more respectable figure."
"Well, I don't know why not," said the inspector. "He doesn't look a credit to the Bow Street cells, does he?"
He slipped his key into the lock, and we all very quietly entered the cell. The sleeper half turned, and then
settled down once more into a deep slumber. Holmes stooped to the water-jug, moistened his sponge, and then
rubbed it twice vigorously across and down the prisoner's face.
"Let me introduce you," he shouted, "to Mr. Neville St. Clair, of Lee, in the county of Kent."
Never in my life have I seen such a sight. The man's face peeled off under the sponge like the bark from a
tree. Gone was the coarse brown tint! Gone, too, was the horrid scar which had seamed it across, and the
twisted lip which had given the repulsive sneer to the face! A twitch brought away the tangled red hair, and
there, sitting up in his bed, was a pale, sad-faced, refined-looking man, black-haired and smooth-skinned,
rubbing his eyes and staring about him with sleepy bewilderment. Then suddenly realising the exposure, he
broke into a scream and threw himself down with his face to the pillow.
"Great heavens!" cried the inspector, "it is, indeed, the missing man. I know him from the photograph."
The prisoner turned with the reckless air of a man who abandons himself to his destiny. "Be it so," said he.
"And pray what am I charged with?"
"With making away with Mr. Neville St.-- Oh, come, you can't be charged with that unless they make a case
of attempted suicide of it," said the inspector with a grin. "Well, I have been twenty-seven years in the force,
but this really takes the cake."
"If I am Mr. Neville St. Clair, then it is obvious that no crime has been committed, and that, therefore, I am
illegally detained."
"No crime, but a very great error has been committed," said Holmes. "You would have done better to have
trusted you wife."
"It was not the wife; it was the children," groaned the prisoner. "God help me, I would not have them ashamed
of their father. My God! What an exposure! What can I do?"
Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly on the shoulder.
"If you leave it to a court of law to clear the matter up," said he, "of course you can hardly avoid publicity. On
the other hand, if you convince the police authorities that there is no possible case against you, I do not knowThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 85
that there is any reason that the details should find their way into the papers. Inspector Bradstreet would, I am
sure, make notes upon anything which you might tell us and submit it to the proper authorities. The case
would then never go into court at all."
"God bless you!" cried the prisoner passionately. "I would have endured imprisonment, ay, even execution,
rather than have left my miserable secret as a family blot to my children.
"You are the first who have ever heard my story. My father was a schoolmaster in Chesterfield, where I
received an excellent education. I travelled in my youth, took to the stage, and finally became a reporter on an
evening paper in London. One day my editor wished to have a series of articles upon begging in the
metropolis, and I volunteered to supply them. There was the point from which all my adventures started. It
was only by trying begging as an amateur that I could get the facts upon which to base my articles. When an
actor I had, of course, learned all the secrets of making up, and had been famous in the green-room for my
skill. I took advantage now of my attainments. I painted my face, and to make myself as pitiable as possible I
made a good scar and fixed one side of my lip in a twist by the aid of a small slip of flesh-coloured plaster.
Then with a red head of hair, and an appropriate dress, I took my station in the business part of the city,
ostensibly as a match-seller but really as a beggar. For seven hours I plied my trade, and when I returned
home in the evening I found to my surprise that I had received no less than 26s. 4d.
"I wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter until, some time later, I backed a bill for a friend and
had a writ served upon me for 25 pounds. I was at my wit's end where to get the money, but a sudden idea
came to me. I begged a fortnight's grace from the creditor, asked for a holiday from my employers, and spent
the time in begging in the City under my disguise. In ten days I had the money and had paid the debt.
"Well, you can imagine how hard it was to settle down to arduous work at 2 pounds a week when I knew that
I could earn as much in a day by smearing my face with a little paint, laying my cap on the ground, and sitting
still. It was a long fight between my pride and the money, but the dollars won at last, and I threw up reporting
and sat day after day in the corner which I had first chosen, inspiring pity by my ghastly face and filling my
pockets with coppers. Only one man knew my secret. He was the keeper of a low den in which I used to lodge
in Swandam Lane, where I could every morning emerge as a squalid beggar and in the evenings transform
myself into a well-dressed man about town. This fellow, a Lascar, was well paid by me for his rooms, so that I
knew that my secret was safe in his possession.
"Well, very soon I found that I was saving considerable sums of money. I do not mean that any beggar in the
streets of London could earn 700 pounds a year--which is less than my average takings--but I had exceptional
advantages in my power of making up, and also in a facility of repartee, which improved by practice and
made me quite a recognised character in the City. All day a stream of pennies, varied by silver, poured in
upon me, and it was a very bad day in which I failed to take 2 pounds.
"As I grew richer I grew more ambitious, took a house in the country, and eventually married, without anyone
having a suspicion as to my real occupation. My dear wife knew that I had business in the City. She little
knew what.
"Last Monday I had finished for the day and was dressing in my room above the opium den when I looked out
of my window and saw, to my horror and astonishment, that my wife was standing in the street, with her eyes
fixed full upon me. I gave a cry of surprise, threw up my arms to cover my face, and, rushing to my confidant,
the Lascar, entreated him to prevent anyone from coming up to me. I heard her voice downstairs, but I knew
that she could not ascend. Swiftly I threw off my clothes, pulled on those of a beggar, and put on my pigments
and wig. Even a wife's eyes could not pierce so complete a disguise. But then it occurred to me that there
might be a search in the room, and that the clothes might betray me. I threw open the window, reopening by
my violence a small cut which I had inflicted upon myself in the bedroom that morning. Then I seized my
coat, which was weighted by the coppers which I had just transferred to it from the leather bag in which IThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 86
carried my takings. I hurled it out of the window, and it disappeared into the Thames. The other clothes would
have followed, but at that moment there was a rush of constables up the stair, and a few minutes after I found,
rather, I confess, to my relief, that instead of being identified as Mr. Neville St. Clair, I was arrested as his
murderer.
"I do not know that there is anything else for me to explain. I was determined to preserve my disguise as long
as possible, and hence my preference for a dirty face. Knowing that my wife would be terribly anxious, I
slipped off my ring and confided it to the Lascar at a moment when no constable was watching me, together
with a hurried scrawl, telling her that she had no cause to fear."
"That note only reached her yesterday," said Holmes.
"Good God! What a week she must have spent!"
"The police have watched this Lascar," said Inspector Bradstreet, "and I can quite understand that he might
find it difficult to post a letter unobserved. Probably he handed it to some sailor customer of his, who forgot
all about it for some days."
"That was it," said Holmes, nodding approvingly; "I have no doubt of it. But have you never been prosecuted
for begging?"
"Many times; but what was a fine to me?"
"It must stop here, however," said Bradstreet. "If the police are to hush this thing up, there must be no more of
Hugh Boone."
"I have sworn it by the most solemn oaths which a man can take."
"In that case I think that it is probable that no further steps may be taken. But if you are found again, then all
must come out. I am sure, Mr. Holmes, that we are very much indebted to you for having cleared the matter
up. I wish I knew how you reach your results."
"I reached this one," said my friend, "by sitting upon five pillows and consuming an ounce of shag. I think,
Watson, that if we drive to Baker Street we shall just be in time for breakfast."
VII. THE ADVENTURE OF THE BLUE CARBUNCLE
I had called upon my friend Sherlock Holmes upon the second morning after Christmas, with the intention of
wishing him the compliments of the season. He was lounging upon the sofa in a purple dressing-gown, a
pipe-rack within his reach upon the right, and a pile of crumpled morning papers, evidently newly studied,
near at hand. Beside the couch was a wooden chair, and on the angle of the back hung a very seedy and
disreputable hard-felt hat, much the worse for wear, and cracked in several places. A lens and a forceps lying
upon the seat of the chair suggested that the hat had been suspended in this manner for the purpose of
examination.
"You are engaged," said I; "perhaps I interrupt you."
"Not at all. I am glad to have a friend with whom I can discuss my results. The matter is a perfectly trivial
one"--he jerked his thumb in the direction of the old hat--"but there are points in connection with it which are
not entirely devoid of interest and even of instruction."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 87
I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his crackling fire, for a sharp frost had set in,
and the windows were thick with the ice crystals. "I suppose," I remarked, "that, homely as it looks, this thing
has some deadly story linked on to it--that it is the clue which will guide you in the solution of some mystery
and the punishment of some crime."
"No, no. No crime," said Sherlock Holmes, laughing. "Only one of those whimsical little incidents which will
happen when you have four million human beings all jostling each other within the space of a few square
miles. Amid the action and reaction of so dense a swarm of humanity, every possible combination of events
may be expected to take place, and many a little problem will be presented which may be striking and bizarre
without being criminal. We have already had experience of such."
"So much so," I remarked, "that of the last six cases which I have added to my notes, three have been entirely
free of any legal crime."
"Precisely. You allude to my attempt to recover the Irene Adler papers, to the singular case of Miss Mary
Sutherland, and to the adventure of the man with the twisted lip. Well, I have no doubt that this small matter
will fall into the same innocent category. You know Peterson, the commissionaire?"
"Yes."
"It is to him that this trophy belongs."
"It is his hat."
"No, no, he found it. Its owner is unknown. I beg that you will look upon it not as a battered billycock but as
an intellectual problem. And, first, as to how it came here. It arrived upon Christmas morning, in company
with a good fat goose, which is, I have no doubt, roasting at this moment in front of Peterson's fire. The facts
are these: about four o'clock on Christmas morning, Peterson, who, as you know, is a very honest fellow, was
returning from some small jollification and was making his way homeward down Tottenham Court Road. In
front of him he saw, in the gaslight, a tallish man, walking with a slight stagger, and carrying a white goose
slung over his shoulder. As he reached the corner of Goodge Street, a row broke out between this stranger and
a little knot of roughs. One of the latter knocked off the man's hat, on which he raised his stick to defend
himself and, swinging it over his head, smashed the shop window behind him. Peterson had rushed forward to
protect the stranger from his assailants; but the man, shocked at having broken the window, and seeing an
official-looking person in uniform rushing towards him, dropped his goose, took to his heels, and vanished
amid the labyrinth of small streets which lie at the back of Tottenham Court Road. The roughs had also fled at
the appearance of Peterson, so that he was left in possession of the field of battle, and also of the spoils of
victory in the shape of this battered hat and a most unimpeachable Christmas goose."
"Which surely he restored to their owner?"
"My dear fellow, there lies the problem. It is true that 'For Mrs. Henry Baker' was printed upon a small card
which was tied to the bird's left leg, and it is also true that the initials 'H. B.' are legible upon the lining of this
hat, but as there are some thousands of Bakers, and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in this city of ours, it is
not easy to restore lost property to any one of them."
"What, then, did Peterson do?"
"He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning, knowing that even the smallest problems
are of interest to me. The goose we retained until this morning, when there were signs that, in spite of the
slight frost, it would be well that it should be eaten without unnecessary delay. Its finder has carried it off,
therefore, to fulfil the ultimate destiny of a goose, while I continue to retain the hat of the unknown gentlemanThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 88
who lost his Christmas dinner."
"Did he not advertise?"
"No."
"Then, what clue could you have as to his identity?"
"Only as much as we can deduce."
"From his hat?"
"Precisely."
"But you are joking. What can you gather from this old battered felt?"
"Here is my lens. You know my methods. What can you gather yourself as to the individuality of the man
who has worn this article?"
I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather ruefully. It was a very ordinary black hat of the
usual round shape, hard and much the worse for wear. The lining had been of red silk, but was a good deal
discoloured. There was no maker's name; but, as Holmes had remarked, the initials "H. B." were scrawled
upon one side. It was pierced in the brim for a hat-securer, but the elastic was missing. For the rest, it was
cracked, exceedingly dusty, and spotted in several places, although there seemed to have been some attempt to
hide the discoloured patches by smearing them with ink.
"I can see nothing," said I, handing it back to my friend.
"On the contrary, Watson, you can see everything. You fail, however, to reason from what you see. You are
too timid in drawing your inferences."
"Then, pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat?"
He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion which was characteristic of him. "It is
perhaps less suggestive than it might have been," he remarked, "and yet there are a few inferences which are
very distinct, and a few others which represent at least a strong balance of probability. That the man was
highly intellectual is of course obvious upon the face of it, and also that he was fairly well-to-do within the
last three years, although he has now fallen upon evil days. He had foresight, but has less now than formerly,
pointing to a moral retrogression, which, when taken with the decline of his fortunes, seems to indicate some
evil influence, probably drink, at work upon him. This may account also for the obvious fact that his wife has
ceased to love him."
"My dear Holmes!"
"He has, however, retained some degree of self-respect," he continued, disregarding my remonstrance. "He is
a man who leads a sedentary life, goes out little, is out of training entirely, is middle-aged, has grizzled hair
which he has had cut within the last few days, and which he anoints with lime-cream. These are the more
patent facts which are to be deduced from his hat. Also, by the way, that it is extremely improbable that he has
gas laid on in his house."
"You are certainly joking, Holmes."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 89
"Not in the least. Is it possible that even now, when I give you these results, you are unable to see how they
are attained?"
"I have no doubt that I am very stupid, but I must confess that I am unable to follow you. For example, how
did you deduce that this man was intellectual?"
For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head. It came right over the forehead and settled upon the bridge
of his nose. "It is a question of cubic capacity," said he; "a man with so large a brain must have something in
it."
"The decline of his fortunes, then?"
"This hat is three years old. These flat brims curled at the edge came in then. It is a hat of the very best
quality. Look at the band of ribbed silk and the excellent lining. If this man could afford to buy so expensive a
hat three years ago, and has had no hat since, then he has assuredly gone down in the world."
"Well, that is clear enough, certainly. But how about the foresight and the moral retrogression?"
Sherlock Holmes laughed. "Here is the foresight," said he putting his finger upon the little disc and loop of the
hat-securer. "They are never sold upon hats. If this man ordered one, it is a sign of a certain amount of
foresight, since he went out of his way to take this precaution against the wind. But since we see that he has
broken the elastic and has not troubled to replace it, it is obvious that he has less foresight now than formerly,
which is a distinct proof of a weakening nature. On the other hand, he has endeavoured to conceal some of
these stains upon the felt by daubing them with ink, which is a sign that he has not entirely lost his
self-respect."
"Your reasoning is certainly plausible."
"The further points, that he is middle-aged, that his hair is grizzled, that it has been recently cut, and that he
uses lime-cream, are all to be gathered from a close examination of the lower part of the lining. The lens
discloses a large number of hair-ends, clean cut by the scissors of the barber. They all appear to be adhesive,
and there is a distinct odour of lime-cream. This dust, you will observe, is not the gritty, grey dust of the street
but the fluffy brown dust of the house, showing that it has been hung up indoors most of the time, while the
marks of moisture upon the inside are proof positive that the wearer perspired very freely, and could therefore,
hardly be in the best of training."
"But his wife--you said that she had ceased to love him."
"This hat has not been brushed for weeks. When I see you, my dear Watson, with a week's accumulation of
dust upon your hat, and when your wife allows you to go out in such a state, I shall fear that you also have
been unfortunate enough to lose your wife's affection."
"But he might be a bachelor."
"Nay, he was bringing home the goose as a peace-offering to his wife. Remember the card upon the bird's
leg."
"You have an answer to everything. But how on earth do you deduce that the gas is not laid on in his house?"
"One tallow stain, or even two, might come by chance; but when I see no less than five, I think that there can
be little doubt that the individual must be brought into frequent contact with burning tallow--walks upstairs at
night probably with his hat in one hand and a guttering candle in the other. Anyhow, he never gotThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 90
tallow-stains from a gas-jet. Are you satisfied?"
"Well, it is very ingenious," said I, laughing; "but since, as you said just now, there has been no crime
committed, and no harm done save the loss of a goose, all this seems to be rather a waste of energy."
Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply, when the door flew open, and Peterson, the commissionaire,
rushed into the apartment with flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazed with astonishment.
"The goose, Mr. Holmes! The goose, sir!" he gasped.
"Eh? What of it, then? Has it returned to life and flapped off through the kitchen window?" Holmes twisted
himself round upon the sofa to get a fairer view of the man's excited face.
"See here, sir! See what my wife found in its crop!" He held out his hand and displayed upon the centre of the
palm a brilliantly scintillating blue stone, rather smaller than a bean in size, but of such purity and radiance
that it twinkled like an electric point in the dark hollow of his hand.
Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle. "By Jove, Peterson!" said he, "this is treasure trove indeed. I suppose
you know what you have got?"
"A diamond, sir? A precious stone. It cuts into glass as though it were putty."
"It's more than a precious stone. It is the precious stone."
"Not the Countess of Morcar's blue carbuncle!" I ejaculated.
"Precisely so. I ought to know its size and shape, seeing that I have read the advertisement about it in The
Times every day lately. It is absolutely unique, and its value can only be conjectured, but the reward offered
of 1000 pounds is certainly not within a twentieth part of the market price."
"A thousand pounds! Great Lord of mercy!" The commissionaire plumped down into a chair and stared from
one to the other of us.
"That is the reward, and I have reason to know that there are sentimental considerations in the background
which would induce the Countess to part with half her fortune if she could but recover the gem."
"It was lost, if I remember aright, at the Hotel Cosmopolitan," I remarked.
"Precisely so, on December 22nd, just five days ago. John Horner, a plumber, was accused of having
abstracted it from the lady's jewel-case. The evidence against him was so strong that the case has been
referred to the Assizes. I have some account of the matter here, I believe." He rummaged amid his
newspapers, glancing over the dates, until at last he smoothed one out, doubled it over, and read the following
paragraph:
"Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery. John Horner, 26, plumber, was brought up upon the charge of having
upon the 22nd inst., abstracted from the jewel-case of the Countess of Morcar the valuable gem known as the
blue carbuncle. James Ryder, upper-attendant at the hotel, gave his evidence to the effect that he had shown
Horner up to the dressing-room of the Countess of Morcar upon the day of the robbery in order that he might
solder the second bar of the grate, which was loose. He had remained with Horner some little time, but had
finally been called away. On returning, he found that Horner had disappeared, that the bureau had been forced
open, and that the small morocco casket in which, as it afterwards transpired, the Countess was accustomed to
keep her jewel, was lying empty upon the dressing-table. Ryder instantly gave the alarm, and Horner wasThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 91
arrested the same evening; but the stone could not be found either upon his person or in his rooms. Catherine
Cusack, maid to the Countess, deposed to having heard Ryder's cry of dismay on discovering the robbery, and
to having rushed into the room, where she found matters as described by the last witness. Inspector Bradstreet,
B division, gave evidence as to the arrest of Horner, who struggled frantically, and protested his innocence in
the strongest terms. Evidence of a previous conviction for robbery having been given against the prisoner, the
magistrate refused to deal summarily with the offence, but referred it to the Assizes. Horner, who had shown
signs of intense emotion during the proceedings, fainted away at the conclusion and was carried out of court."
"Hum! So much for the police-court," said Holmes thoughtfully, tossing aside the paper. "The question for us
now to solve is the sequence of events leading from a rifled jewel-case at one end to the crop of a goose in
Tottenham Court Road at the other. You see, Watson, our little deductions have suddenly assumed a much
more important and less innocent aspect. Here is the stone; the stone came from the goose, and the goose
came from Mr. Henry Baker, the gentleman with the bad hat and all the other characteristics with which I
have bored you. So now we must set ourselves very seriously to finding this gentleman and ascertaining what
part he has played in this little mystery. To do this, we must try the simplest means first, and these lie
undoubtedly in an advertisement in all the evening papers. If this fail, I shall have recourse to other methods."
"What will you say?"
"Give me a pencil and that slip of paper. Now, then: 'Found at the corner of Goodge Street, a goose and a
black felt hat. Mr. Henry Baker can have the same by applying at 6:30 this evening at 221B, Baker Street.'
That is clear and concise."
"Very. But will he see it?"
"Well, he is sure to keep an eye on the papers, since, to a poor man, the loss was a heavy one. He was clearly
so scared by his mischance in breaking the window and by the approach of Peterson that he thought of
nothing but flight, but since then he must have bitterly regretted the impulse which caused him to drop his
bird. Then, again, the introduction of his name will cause him to see it, for everyone who knows him will
direct his attention to it. Here you are, Peterson, run down to the advertising agency and have this put in the
evening papers."
"In which, sir?"
"Oh, in the Globe, Star, Pall Mall, St. James's, Evening News, Standard, Echo, and any others that occur to
you."
"Very well, sir. And this stone?"
"Ah, yes, I shall keep the stone. Thank you. And, I say, Peterson, just buy a goose on your way back and leave
it here with me, for we must have one to give to this gentleman in place of the one which your family is now
devouring."
When the commissionaire had gone, Holmes took up the stone and held it against the light. "It's a bonny
thing," said he. "Just see how it glints and sparkles. Of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime. Every good
stone is. They are the devil's pet baits. In the larger and older jewels every facet may stand for a bloody deed.
This stone is not yet twenty years old. It was found in the banks of the Amoy River in southern China and is
remarkable in having every characteristic of the carbuncle, save that it is blue in shade instead of ruby red. In
spite of its youth, it has already a sinister history. There have been two murders, a vitriol-throwing, a suicide,
and several robberies brought about for the sake of this forty-grain weight of crystallised charcoal. Who
would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallows and the prison? I'll lock it up in my strong
box now and drop a line to the Countess to say that we have it."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 92
"Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?"
"I cannot tell."
"Well, then, do you imagine that this other one, Henry Baker, had anything to do with the matter?"
"It is, I think, much more likely that Henry Baker is an absolutely innocent man, who had no idea that the bird
which he was carrying was of considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold. That, however, I
shall determine by a very simple test if we have an answer to our advertisement."
"And you can do nothing until then?"
"Nothing."
"In that case I shall continue my professional round. But I shall come back in the evening at the hour you have
mentioned, for I should like to see the solution of so tangled a business."
"Very glad to see you. I dine at seven. There is a woodcock, I believe. By the way, in view of recent
occurrences, perhaps I ought to ask Mrs. Hudson to examine its crop."
I had been delayed at a case, and it was a little after half-past six when I found myself in Baker Street once
more. As I approached the house I saw a tall man in a Scotch bonnet with a coat which was buttoned up to his
chin waiting outside in the bright semicircle which was thrown from the fanlight. Just as I arrived the door
was opened, and we were shown up together to Holmes' room.
"Mr. Henry Baker, I believe," said he, rising from his armchair and greeting his visitor with the easy air of
geniality which he could so readily assume. "Pray take this chair by the fire, Mr. Baker. It is a cold night, and
I observe that your circulation is more adapted for summer than for winter. Ah, Watson, you have just come at
the right time. Is that your hat, Mr. Baker?"
"Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat."
He was a large man with rounded shoulders, a massive head, and a broad, intelligent face, sloping down to a
pointed beard of grizzled brown. A touch of red in nose and cheeks, with a slight tremor of his extended hand,
recalled Holmes' surmise as to his habits. His rusty black frock-coat was buttoned right up in front, with the
collar turned up, and his lank wrists protruded from his sleeves without a sign of cuff or shirt. He spoke in a
slow staccato fashion, choosing his words with care, and gave the impression generally of a man of learning
and letters who had had ill-usage at the hands of fortune.
"We have retained these things for some days," said Holmes, "because we expected to see an advertisement
from you giving your address. I am at a loss to know now why you did not advertise."
Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh. "Shillings have not been so plentiful with me as they once were,"
he remarked. "I had no doubt that the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off both my hat and the
bird. I did not care to spend more money in a hopeless attempt at recovering them."
"Very naturally. By the way, about the bird, we were compelled to eat it."
"To eat it!" Our visitor half rose from his chair in his excitement.
"Yes, it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so. But I presume that this other goose upon
the sideboard, which is about the same weight and perfectly fresh, will answer your purpose equally well?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 93
"Oh, certainly, certainly," answered Mr. Baker with a sigh of relief.
"Of course, we still have the feathers, legs, crop, and so on of your own bird, so if you wish--"
The man burst into a hearty laugh. "They might be useful to me as relics of my adventure," said he, "but
beyond that I can hardly see what use the disjecta membra of my late acquaintance are going to be to me. No,
sir, I think that, with your permission, I will confine my attentions to the excellent bird which I perceive upon
the sideboard."
Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his shoulders.
"There is your hat, then, and there your bird," said he. "By the way, would it bore you to tell me where you
got the other one from? I am somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen a better grown goose."
"Certainly, sir," said Baker, who had risen and tucked his newly gained property under his arm. "There are a
few of us who frequent the Alpha Inn, near the Museum--we are to be found in the Museum itself during the
day, you understand. This year our good host, Windigate by name, instituted a goose club, by which, on
consideration of some few pence every week, we were each to receive a bird at Christmas. My pence were
duly paid, and the rest is familiar to you. I am much indebted to you, sir, for a Scotch bonnet is fitted neither
to my years nor my gravity." With a comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and
strode off upon his way.
"So much for Mr. Henry Baker," said Holmes when he had closed the door behind him. "It is quite certain that
he knows nothing whatever about the matter. Are you hungry, Watson?"
"Not particularly."
"Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up this clue while it is still hot."
"By all means."
It was a bitter night, so we drew on our ulsters and wrapped cravats about our throats. Outside, the stars were
shining coldly in a cloudless sky, and the breath of the passers-by blew out into smoke like so many pistol
shots. Our footfalls rang out crisply and loudly as we swung through the doctors' quarter, Wimpole Street,
Harley Street, and so through Wigmore Street into Oxford Street. In a quarter of an hour we were in
Bloomsbury at the Alpha Inn, which is a small public-house at the corner of one of the streets which runs
down into Holborn. Holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two glasses of beer from the
ruddy-faced, white-aproned landlord.
"Your beer should be excellent if it is as good as your geese," said he.
"My geese!" The man seemed surprised.
"Yes. I was speaking only half an hour ago to Mr. Henry Baker, who was a member of your goose club."
"Ah! yes, I see. But you see, sir, them's not our geese."
"Indeed! Whose, then?"
"Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden."
"Indeed? I know some of them. Which was it?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 94
"Breckinridge is his name."
"Ah! I don't know him. Well, here's your good health landlord, and prosperity to your house. Good-night."
"Now for Mr. Breckinridge," he continued, buttoning up his coat as we came out into the frosty air.
"Remember, Watson that though we have so homely a thing as a goose at one end of this chain, we have at the
other a man who will certainly get seven years' penal servitude unless we can establish his innocence. It is
possible that our inquiry may but confirm his guilt; but, in any case, we have a line of investigation which has
been missed by the police, and which a singular chance has placed in our hands. Let us follow it out to the
bitter end. Faces to the south, then, and quick march!"
We passed across Holborn, down Endell Street, and so through a zigzag of slums to Covent Garden Market.
One of the largest stalls bore the name of Breckinridge upon it, and the proprietor a horsey-looking man, with
a sharp face and trim side-whiskers was helping a boy to put up the shutters.
"Good-evening. It's a cold night," said Holmes.
The salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my companion.
"Sold out of geese, I see," continued Holmes, pointing at the bare slabs of marble.
"Let you have five hundred to-morrow morning."
"That's no good."
"Well, there are some on the stall with the gas-flare."
"Ah, but I was recommended to you."
"Who by?"
"The landlord of the Alpha."
"Oh, yes; I sent him a couple of dozen."
"Fine birds they were, too. Now where did you get them from?"
To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman.
"Now, then, mister," said he, with his head cocked and his arms akimbo, "what are you driving at? Let's have
it straight, now."
"It is straight enough. I should like to know who sold you the geese which you supplied to the Alpha."
"Well then, I shan't tell you. So now!"
"Oh, it is a matter of no importance; but I don't know why you should be so warm over such a trifle."
"Warm! You'd be as warm, maybe, if you were as pestered as I am. When I pay good money for a good article
there should be an end of the business; but it's 'Where are the geese?' and 'Who did you sell the geese to?' and
'What will you take for the geese?' One would think they were the only geese in the world, to hear the fuss
that is made over them."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 95
"Well, I have no connection with any other people who have been making inquiries," said Holmes carelessly.
"If you won't tell us the bet is off, that is all. But I'm always ready to back my opinion on a matter of fowls,
and I have a fiver on it that the bird I ate is country bred."
"Well, then, you've lost your fiver, for it's town bred," snapped the salesman.
"It's nothing of the kind."
"I say it is."
"I don't believe it."
"D'you think you know more about fowls than I, who have handled them ever since I was a nipper? I tell you,
all those birds that went to the Alpha were town bred."
"You'll never persuade me to believe that."
"Will you bet, then?"
"It's merely taking your money, for I know that I am right. But I'll have a sovereign on with you, just to teach
you not to be obstinate."
The salesman chuckled grimly. "Bring me the books, Bill," said he.
The small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great greasy-backed one, laying them out together
beneath the hanging lamp.
"Now then, Mr. Cocksure," said the salesman, "I thought that I was out of geese, but before I finish you'll find
that there is still one left in my shop. You see this little book?"
"Well?"
"That's the list of the folk from whom I buy. D'you see? Well, then, here on this page are the country folk, and
the numbers after their names are where their accounts are in the big ledger. Now, then! You see this other
page in red ink? Well, that is a list of my town suppliers. Now, look at that third name. Just read it out to me."
"Mrs. Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road--249," read Holmes.
"Quite so. Now turn that up in the ledger."
Holmes turned to the page indicated. "Here you are, 'Mrs. Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road, egg and poultry
supplier.'"
"Now, then, what's the last entry?"
"'December 22nd. Twenty-four geese at 7s. 6d.'"
"Quite so. There you are. And underneath?"
"'Sold to Mr. Windigate of the Alpha, at 12s.'"
"What have you to say now?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 96
Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined. He drew a sovereign from his pocket and threw it down upon the
slab, turning away with the air of a man whose disgust is too deep for words. A few yards off he stopped
under a lamp-post and laughed in the hearty, noiseless fashion which was peculiar to him.
"When you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the 'Pink 'un' protruding out of his pocket, you can always
draw him by a bet," said he. "I daresay that if I had put 100 pounds down in front of him, that man would not
have given me such complete information as was drawn from him by the idea that he was doing me on a
wager. Well, Watson, we are, I fancy, nearing the end of our quest, and the only point which remains to be
determined is whether we should go on to this Mrs. Oakshott to-night, or whether we should reserve it for
to-morrow. It is clear from what that surly fellow said that there are others besides ourselves who are anxious
about the matter, and I should--"
His remarks were suddenly cut short by a loud hubbub which broke out from the stall which we had just left.
Turning round we saw a little rat-faced fellow standing in the centre of the circle of yellow light which was
thrown by the swinging lamp, while Breckinridge, the salesman, framed in the door of his stall, was shaking
his fists fiercely at the cringing figure.
"I've had enough of you and your geese," he shouted. "I wish you were all at the devil together. If you come
pestering me any more with your silly talk I'll set the dog at you. You bring Mrs. Oakshott here and I'll answer
her, but what have you to do with it? Did I buy the geese off you?"
"No; but one of them was mine all the same," whined the little man.
"Well, then, ask Mrs. Oakshott for it."
"She told me to ask you."
"Well, you can ask the King of Proosia, for all I care. I've had enough of it. Get out of this!" He rushed
fiercely forward, and the inquirer flitted away into the darkness.
"Ha! this may save us a visit to Brixton Road," whispered Holmes. "Come with me, and we will see what is to
be made of this fellow." Striding through the scattered knots of people who lounged round the flaring stalls,
my companion speedily overtook the little man and touched him upon the shoulder. He sprang round, and I
could see in the gas-light that every vestige of colour had been driven from his face.
"Who are you, then? What do you want?" he asked in a quavering voice.
"You will excuse me," said Holmes blandly, "but I could not help overhearing the questions which you put to
the salesman just now. I think that I could be of assistance to you."
"You? Who are you? How could you know anything of the matter?"
"My name is Sherlock Holmes. It is my business to know what other people don't know."
"But you can know nothing of this?"
"Excuse me, I know everything of it. You are endeavouring to trace some geese which were sold by Mrs.
Oakshott, of Brixton Road, to a salesman named Breckinridge, by him in turn to Mr. Windigate, of the Alpha,
and by him to his club, of which Mr. Henry Baker is a member."
"Oh, sir, you are the very man whom I have longed to meet," cried the little fellow with outstretched hands
and quivering fingers. "I can hardly explain to you how interested I am in this matter."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 97
Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which was passing. "In that case we had better discuss it in a cosy
room rather than in this wind-swept market-place," said he. "But pray tell me, before we go farther, who it is
that I have the pleasure of assisting."
The man hesitated for an instant. "My name is John Robinson," he answered with a sidelong glance.
"No, no; the real name," said Holmes sweetly. "It is always awkward doing business with an alias."
A flush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger. "Well then," said he, "my real name is James Ryder."
"Precisely so. Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan. Pray step into the cab, and I shall soon be able to tell
you everything which you would wish to know."
The little man stood glancing from one to the other of us with half-frightened, half-hopeful eyes, as one who
is not sure whether he is on the verge of a windfall or of a catastrophe. Then he stepped into the cab, and in
half an hour we were back in the sitting-room at Baker Street. Nothing had been said during our drive, but the
high, thin breathing of our new companion, and the claspings and unclaspings of his hands, spoke of the
nervous tension within him.
"Here we are!" said Holmes cheerily as we filed into the room. "The fire looks very seasonable in this
weather. You look cold, Mr. Ryder. Pray take the basket-chair. I will just put on my slippers before we settle
this little matter of yours. Now, then! You want to know what became of those geese?"
"Yes, sir."
"Or rather, I fancy, of that goose. It was one bird, I imagine in which you were interested--white, with a black
bar across the tail."
Ryder quivered with emotion. "Oh, sir," he cried, "can you tell me where it went to?"
"It came here."
"Here?"
"Yes, and a most remarkable bird it proved. I don't wonder that you should take an interest in it. It laid an egg
after it was dead--the bonniest, brightest little blue egg that ever was seen. I have it here in my museum."
Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece with his right hand. Holmes unlocked his
strong-box and held up the blue carbuncle, which shone out like a star, with a cold, brilliant, many-pointed
radiance. Ryder stood glaring with a drawn face, uncertain whether to claim or to disown it.
"The game's up, Ryder," said Holmes quietly. "Hold up, man, or you'll be into the fire! Give him an arm back
into his chair, Watson. He's not got blood enough to go in for felony with impunity. Give him a dash of
brandy. So! Now he looks a little more human. What a shrimp it is, to be sure!"
For a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen, but the brandy brought a tinge of colour into his cheeks, and
he sat staring with frightened eyes at his accuser.
"I have almost every link in my hands, and all the proofs which I could possibly need, so there is little which
you need tell me. Still, that little may as well be cleared up to make the case complete. You had heard, Ryder,
of this blue stone of the Countess of Morcar's?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 98
"It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it," said he in a crackling voice.
"I see--her ladyship's waiting-maid. Well, the temptation of sudden wealth so easily acquired was too much
for you, as it has been for better men before you; but you were not very scrupulous in the means you used. It
seems to me, Ryder, that there is the making of a very pretty villain in you. You knew that this man Horner,
the plumber, had been concerned in some such matter before, and that suspicion would rest the more readily
upon him. What did you do, then? You made some small job in my lady's room--you and your confederate
Cusack--and you managed that he should be the man sent for. Then, when he had left, you rifled the
jewel-case, raised the alarm, and had this unfortunate man arrested. You then--"
Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my companion's knees. "For God's sake,
have mercy!" he shrieked. "Think of my father! Of my mother! It would break their hearts. I never went
wrong before! I never will again. I swear it. I'll swear it on a Bible. Oh, don't bring it into court! For Christ's
sake, don't!"
"Get back into your chair!" said Holmes sternly. "It is very well to cringe and crawl now, but you thought
little enough of this poor Horner in the dock for a crime of which he knew nothing."
"I will fly, Mr. Holmes. I will leave the country, sir. Then the charge against him will break down."
"Hum! We will talk about that. And now let us hear a true account of the next act. How came the stone into
the goose, and how came the goose into the open market? Tell us the truth, for there lies your only hope of
safety."
Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips. "I will tell you it just as it happened, sir," said he. "When
Horner had been arrested, it seemed to me that it would be best for me to get away with the stone at once, for I
did not know at what moment the police might not take it into their heads to search me and my room. There
was no place about the hotel where it would be safe. I went out, as if on some commission, and I made for my
sister's house. She had married a man named Oakshott, and lived in Brixton Road, where she fattened fowls
for the market. All the way there every man I met seemed to me to be a policeman or a detective; and, for all
that it was a cold night, the sweat was pouring down my face before I came to the Brixton Road. My sister
asked me what was the matter, and why I was so pale; but I told her that I had been upset by the jewel robbery
at the hotel. Then I went into the back yard and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do.
"I had a friend once called Maudsley, who went to the bad, and has just been serving his time in Pentonville.
One day he had met me, and fell into talk about the ways of thieves, and how they could get rid of what they
stole. I knew that he would be true to me, for I knew one or two things about him; so I made up my mind to
go right on to Kilburn, where he lived, and take him into my confidence. He would show me how to turn the
stone into money. But how to get to him in safety? I thought of the agonies I had gone through in coming
from the hotel. I might at any moment be seized and searched, and there would be the stone in my waistcoat
pocket. I was leaning against the wall at the time and looking at the geese which were waddling about round
my feet, and suddenly an idea came into my head which showed me how I could beat the best detective that
ever lived.
"My sister had told me some weeks before that I might have the pick of her geese for a Christmas present, and
I knew that she was always as good as her word. I would take my goose now, and in it I would carry my stone
to Kilburn. There was a little shed in the yard, and behind this I drove one of the birds--a fine big one, white,
with a barred tail. I caught it, and prying its bill open, I thrust the stone down its throat as far as my finger
could reach. The bird gave a gulp, and I felt the stone pass along its gullet and down into its crop. But the
creature flapped and struggled, and out came my sister to know what was the matter. As I turned to speak to
her the brute broke loose and fluttered off among the others.The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 99
"'Whatever were you doing with that bird, Jem?' says she.
"'Well,' said I, 'you said you'd give me one for Christmas, and I was feeling which was the fattest.'
"'Oh,' says she, 'we've set yours aside for you--Jem's bird, we call it. It's the big white one over yonder. There's
twenty-six of them, which makes one for you, and one for us, and two dozen for the market.'
"'Thank you, Maggie,' says I; 'but if it is all the same to you, I'd rather have that one I was handling just now.'
"'The other is a good three pound heavier,' said she, 'and we fattened it expressly for you.'
"'Never mind. I'll have the other, and I'll take it now,' said I.
"'Oh, just as you like,' said she, a little huffed. 'Which is it you want, then?'
"'That white one with the barred tail, right in the middle of the flock.'
"'Oh, very well. Kill it and take it with you.'
"Well, I did what she said, Mr. Holmes, and I carried the bird all the way to Kilburn. I told my pal what I had
done, for he was a man that it was easy to tell a thing like that to. He laughed until he choked, and we got a
knife and opened the goose. My heart turned to water, for there was no sign of the stone, and I knew that some
terrible mistake had occurred. I left the bird, rushed back to my sister's, and hurried into the back yard. There
was not a bird to be seen there.
"'Where are they all, Maggie?' I cried.
"'Gone to the dealer's, Jem.'
"'Which dealer's?'
"'Breckinridge, of Covent Garden.'
"'But was there another with a barred tail?' I asked, 'the same as the one I chose?'
"'Yes, Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones, and I could never tell them apart.'
"Well, then, of course I saw it all, and I ran off as hard as my feet would carry me to this man Breckinridge;
but he had sold the lot at once, and not one word would he tell me as to where they had gone. You heard him
yourselves to-night. Well, he has always answered me like that. My sister thinks that I am going mad.
Sometimes I think that I am myself. And now--and now I am myself a branded thief, without ever having
touched the wealth for which I sold my character. God help me! God help me!" He burst into convulsive
sobbing, with his face buried in his hands.
There was a long silence, broken only by his heavy breathing and by the measured tapping of Sherlock
Holmes' finger-tips upon the edge of the table. Then my friend rose and threw open the door.
"Get out!" said he.
"What, sir! Oh, Heaven bless you!"
"No more words. Get out!"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 100
And no more words were needed. There was a rush, a clatter upon the stairs, the bang of a door, and the crisp
rattle of running footfalls from the street.
"After all, Watson," said Holmes, reaching up his hand for his clay pipe, "I am not retained by the police to
supply their deficiencies. If Horner were in danger it would be another thing; but this fellow will not appear
against him, and the case must collapse. I suppose that I am commuting a felony, but it is just possible that I
am saving a soul. This fellow will not go wrong again; he is too terribly frightened. Send him to gaol now,
and you make him a gaol-bird for life. Besides, it is the season of forgiveness. Chance has put in our way a
most singular and whimsical problem, and its solution is its own reward. If you will have the goodness to
touch the bell, Doctor, we will begin another investigation, in which, also a bird will be the chief feature."
VIII. THE ADVENTURE OF THE SPECKLED BAND
On glancing over my notes of the seventy odd cases in which I have during the last eight years studied the
methods of my friend Sherlock Holmes, I find many tragic, some comic, a large number merely strange, but
none commonplace; for, working as he did rather for the love of his art than for the acquirement of wealth, he
refused to associate himself with any investigation which did not tend towards the unusual, and even the
fantastic. Of all these varied cases, however, I cannot recall any which presented more singular features than
that which was associated with the well-known Surrey family of the Roylotts of Stoke Moran. The events in
question occurred in the early days of my association with Holmes, when we were sharing rooms as bachelors
in Baker Street. It is possible that I might have placed them upon record before, but a promise of secrecy was
made at the time, from which I have only been freed during the last month by the untimely death of the lady to
whom the pledge was given. It is perhaps as well that the facts should now come to light, for I have reasons to
know that there are widespread rumours as to the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott which tend to make the
matter even more terrible than the truth.
It was early in April in the year '83 that I woke one morning to find Sherlock Holmes standing, fully dressed,
by the side of my bed. He was a late riser, as a rule, and as the clock on the mantelpiece showed me that it was
only a quarter-past seven, I blinked up at him in some surprise, and perhaps just a little resentment, for I was
myself regular in my habits.
"Very sorry to knock you up, Watson," said he, "but it's the common lot this morning. Mrs. Hudson has been
knocked up, she retorted upon me, and I on you."
"What is it, then--a fire?"
"No; a client. It seems that a young lady has arrived in a considerable state of excitement, who insists upon
seeing me. She is waiting now in the sitting-room. Now, when young ladies wander about the metropolis at
this hour of the morning, and knock sleepy people up out of their beds, I presume that it is something very
pressing which they have to communicate. Should it prove to be an interesting case, you would, I am sure,
wish to follow it from the outset. I thought, at any rate, that I should call you and give you the chance."
"My dear fellow, I would not miss it for anything."
I had no keener pleasure than in following Holmes in his professional investigations, and in admiring the
rapid deductions, as swift as intuitions, and yet always founded on a logical basis with which he unravelled
the problems which were submitted to him. I rapidly threw on my clothes and was ready in a few minutes to
accompany my friend down to the sitting-room. A lady dressed in black and heavily veiled, who had been
sitting in the window, rose as we entered.
"Good-morning, madam," said Holmes cheerily. "My name is Sherlock Holmes. This is my intimate friend
and associate, Dr. Watson, before whom you can speak as freely as before myself. Ha! I am glad to see thatThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 101
Mrs. Hudson has had the good sense to light the fire. Pray draw up to it, and I shall order you a cup of hot
coffee, for I observe that you are shivering."
"It is not cold which makes me shiver," said the woman in a low voice, changing her seat as requested.
"What, then?"
"It is fear, Mr. Holmes. It is terror." She raised her veil as she spoke, and we could see that she was indeed in
a pitiable state of agitation, her face all drawn and grey, with restless frightened eyes, like those of some
hunted animal. Her features and figure were those of a woman of thirty, but her hair was shot with premature
grey, and her expression was weary and haggard. Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one of his quick,
all-comprehensive glances.
"You must not fear," said he soothingly, bending forward and patting her forearm. "We shall soon set matters
right, I have no doubt. You have come in by train this morning, I see."
"You know me, then?"
"No, but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm of your left glove. You must have started
early, and yet you had a good drive in a dog-cart, along heavy roads, before you reached the station."
The lady gave a violent start and stared in bewilderment at my companion.
"There is no mystery, my dear madam," said he, smiling. "The left arm of your jacket is spattered with mud in
no less than seven places. The marks are perfectly fresh. There is no vehicle save a dog-cart which throws up
mud in that way, and then only when you sit on the left-hand side of the driver."
"Whatever your reasons may be, you are perfectly correct," said she. "I started from home before six, reached
Leatherhead at twenty past, and came in by the first train to Waterloo. Sir, I can stand this strain no longer; I
shall go mad if it continues. I have no one to turn to--none, save only one, who cares for me, and he, poor
fellow, can be of little aid. I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes; I have heard of you from Mrs. Farintosh, whom
you helped in the hour of her sore need. It was from her that I had your address. Oh, sir, do you not think that
you could help me, too, and at least throw a little light through the dense darkness which surrounds me? At
present it is out of my power to reward you for your services, but in a month or six weeks I shall be married,
with the control of my own income, and then at least you shall not find me ungrateful."
Holmes turned to his desk and, unlocking it, drew out a small case-book, which he consulted.
"Farintosh," said he. "Ah yes, I recall the case; it was concerned with an opal tiara. I think it was before your
time, Watson. I can only say, madam, that I shall be happy to devote the same care to your case as I did to that
of your friend. As to reward, my profession is its own reward; but you are at liberty to defray whatever
expenses I may be put to, at the time which suits you best. And now I beg that you will lay before us
everything that may help us in forming an opinion upon the matter."
"Alas!" replied our visitor, "the very horror of my situation lies in the fact that my fears are so vague, and my
suspicions depend so entirely upon small points, which might seem trivial to another, that even he to whom of
all others I have a right to look for help and advice looks upon all that I tell him about it as the fancies of a
nervous woman. He does not say so, but I can read it from his soothing answers and averted eyes. But I have
heard, Mr. Holmes, that you can see deeply into the manifold wickedness of the human heart. You may advise
me how to walk amid the dangers which encompass me."
"I am all attention, madam."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 102
"My name is Helen Stoner, and I am living with my stepfather, who is the last survivor of one of the oldest
Saxon families in England, the Roylotts of Stoke Moran, on the western border of Surrey."
Holmes nodded his head. "The name is familiar to me," said he.
"The family was at one time among the richest in England, and the estates extended over the borders into
Berkshire in the north, and Hampshire in the west. In the last century, however, four successive heirs were of
a dissolute and wasteful disposition, and the family ruin was eventually completed by a gambler in the days of
the Regency. Nothing was left save a few acres of ground, and the two-hundred-year-old house, which is itself
crushed under a heavy mortgage. The last squire dragged out his existence there, living the horrible life of an
aristocratic pauper; but his only son, my stepfather, seeing that he must adapt himself to the new conditions,
obtained an advance from a relative, which enabled him to take a medical degree and went out to Calcutta,
where, by his professional skill and his force of character, he established a large practice. In a fit of anger,
however, caused by some robberies which had been perpetrated in the house, he beat his native butler to death
and narrowly escaped a capital sentence. As it was, he suffered a long term of imprisonment and afterwards
returned to England a morose and disappointed man.
"When Dr. Roylott was in India he married my mother, Mrs. Stoner, the young widow of Major-General
Stoner, of the Bengal Artillery. My sister Julia and I were twins, and we were only two years old at the time of
my mother's re-marriage. She had a considerable sum of money--not less than 1000 pounds a year--and this
she bequeathed to Dr. Roylott entirely while we resided with him, with a provision that a certain annual sum
should be allowed to each of us in the event of our marriage. Shortly after our return to England my mother
died--she was killed eight years ago in a railway accident near Crewe. Dr. Roylott then abandoned his
attempts to establish himself in practice in London and took us to live with him in the old ancestral house at
Stoke Moran. The money which my mother had left was enough for all our wants, and there seemed to be no
obstacle to our happiness.
"But a terrible change came over our stepfather about this time. Instead of making friends and exchanging
visits with our neighbours, who had at first been overjoyed to see a Roylott of Stoke Moran back in the old
family seat, he shut himself up in his house and seldom came out save to indulge in ferocious quarrels with
whoever might cross his path. Violence of temper approaching to mania has been hereditary in the men of the
family, and in my stepfather's case it had, I believe, been intensified by his long residence in the tropics. A
series of disgraceful brawls took place, two of which ended in the police-court, until at last he became the
terror of the village, and the folks would fly at his approach, for he is a man of immense strength, and
absolutely uncontrollable in his anger.
"Last week he hurled the local blacksmith over a parapet into a stream, and it was only by paying over all the
money which I could gather together that I was able to avert another public exposure. He had no friends at all
save the wandering gipsies, and he would give these vagabonds leave to encamp upon the few acres of
bramble-covered land which represent the family estate, and would accept in return the hospitality of their
tents, wandering away with them sometimes for weeks on end. He has a passion also for Indian animals,
which are sent over to him by a correspondent, and he has at this moment a cheetah and a baboon, which
wander freely over his grounds and are feared by the villagers almost as much as their master.
"You can imagine from what I say that my poor sister Julia and I had no great pleasure in our lives. No
servant would stay with us, and for a long time we did all the work of the house. She was but thirty at the time
of her death, and yet her hair had already begun to whiten, even as mine has."
"Your sister is dead, then?"
"She died just two years ago, and it is of her death that I wish to speak to you. You can understand that, living
the life which I have described, we were little likely to see anyone of our own age and position. We had,The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 103
however, an aunt, my mother's maiden sister, Miss Honoria Westphail, who lives near Harrow, and we were
occasionally allowed to pay short visits at this lady's house. Julia went there at Christmas two years ago, and
met there a half-pay major of marines, to whom she became engaged. My stepfather learned of the
engagement when my sister returned and offered no objection to the marriage; but within a fortnight of the
day which had been fixed for the wedding, the terrible event occurred which has deprived me of my only
companion."
Sherlock Holmes had been leaning back in his chair with his eyes closed and his head sunk in a cushion, but
he half opened his lids now and glanced across at his visitor.
"Pray be precise as to details," said he.
"It is easy for me to be so, for every event of that dreadful time is seared into my memory. The manor-house
is, as I have already said, very old, and only one wing is now inhabited. The bedrooms in this wing are on the
ground floor, the sitting-rooms being in the central block of the buildings. Of these bedrooms the first is Dr.
Roylott's, the second my sister's, and the third my own. There is no communication between them, but they all
open out into the same corridor. Do I make myself plain?"
"Perfectly so."
"The windows of the three rooms open out upon the lawn. That fatal night Dr. Roylott had gone to his room
early, though we knew that he had not retired to rest, for my sister was troubled by the smell of the strong
Indian cigars which it was his custom to smoke. She left her room, therefore, and came into mine, where she
sat for some time, chatting about her approaching wedding. At eleven o'clock she rose to leave me, but she
paused at the door and looked back.
"'Tell me, Helen,' said she, 'have you ever heard anyone whistle in the dead of the night?'
"'Never,' said I.
"'I suppose that you could not possibly whistle, yourself, in your sleep?'
"'Certainly not. But why?'
"'Because during the last few nights I have always, about three in the morning, heard a low, clear whistle. I am
a light sleeper, and it has awakened me. I cannot tell where it came from--perhaps from the next room,
perhaps from the lawn. I thought that I would just ask you whether you had heard it.'
"'No, I have not. It must be those wretched gipsies in the plantation.'
"'Very likely. And yet if it were on the lawn, I wonder that you did not hear it also.'
"'Ah, but I sleep more heavily than you.'
"'Well, it is of no great consequence, at any rate.' She smiled back at me, closed my door, and a few moments
later I heard her key turn in the lock."
"Indeed," said Holmes. "Was it your custom always to lock yourselves in at night?"
"Always."
"And why?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 104
"I think that I mentioned to you that the doctor kept a cheetah and a baboon. We had no feeling of security
unless our doors were locked."
"Quite so. Pray proceed with your statement."
"I could not sleep that night. A vague feeling of impending misfortune impressed me. My sister and I, you
will recollect, were twins, and you know how subtle are the links which bind two souls which are so closely
allied. It was a wild night. The wind was howling outside, and the rain was beating and splashing against the
windows. Suddenly, amid all the hubbub of the gale, there burst forth the wild scream of a terrified woman. I
knew that it was my sister's voice. I sprang from my bed, wrapped a shawl round me, and rushed into the
corridor. As I opened my door I seemed to hear a low whistle, such as my sister described, and a few moments
later a clanging sound, as if a mass of metal had fallen. As I ran down the passage, my sister's door was
unlocked, and revolved slowly upon its hinges. I stared at it horror-stricken, not knowing what was about to
issue from it. By the light of the corridor-lamp I saw my sister appear at the opening, her face blanched with
terror, her hands groping for help, her whole figure swaying to and fro like that of a drunkard. I ran to her and
threw my arms round her, but at that moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground. She
writhed as one who is in terrible pain, and her limbs were dreadfully convulsed. At first I thought that she had
not recognised me, but as I bent over her she suddenly shrieked out in a voice which I shall never forget, 'Oh,
my God! Helen! It was the band! The speckled band!' There was something else which she would fain have
said, and she stabbed with her finger into the air in the direction of the doctor's room, but a fresh convulsion
seized her and choked her words. I rushed out, calling loudly for my stepfather, and I met him hastening from
his room in his dressing-gown. When he reached my sister's side she was unconscious, and though he poured
brandy down her throat and sent for medical aid from the village, all efforts were in vain, for she slowly sank
and died without having recovered her consciousness. Such was the dreadful end of my beloved sister."
"One moment," said Holmes, "are you sure about this whistle and metallic sound? Could you swear to it?"
"That was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry. It is my strong impression that I heard it, and yet,
among the crash of the gale and the creaking of an old house, I may possibly have been deceived."
"Was your sister dressed?"
"No, she was in her night-dress. In her right hand was found the charred stump of a match, and in her left a
match-box."
"Showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when the alarm took place. That is important. And
what conclusions did the coroner come to?"
"He investigated the case with great care, for Dr. Roylott's conduct had long been notorious in the county, but
he was unable to find any satisfactory cause of death. My evidence showed that the door had been fastened
upon the inner side, and the windows were blocked by old-fashioned shutters with broad iron bars, which
were secured every night. The walls were carefully sounded, and were shown to be quite solid all round, and
the flooring was also thoroughly examined, with the same result. The chimney is wide, but is barred up by
four large staples. It is certain, therefore, that my sister was quite alone when she met her end. Besides, there
were no marks of any violence upon her."
"How about poison?"
"The doctors examined her for it, but without success."
"What do you think that this unfortunate lady died of, then?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 105
"It is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock, though what it was that frightened her I cannot
imagine."
"Were there gipsies in the plantation at the time?"
"Yes, there are nearly always some there."
"Ah, and what did you gather from this allusion to a band--a speckled band?"
"Sometimes I have thought that it was merely the wild talk of delirium, sometimes that it may have referred to
some band of people, perhaps to these very gipsies in the plantation. I do not know whether the spotted
handkerchiefs which so many of them wear over their heads might have suggested the strange adjective which
she used."
Holmes shook his head like a man who is far from being satisfied.
"These are very deep waters," said he; "pray go on with your narrative."
"Two years have passed since then, and my life has been until lately lonelier than ever. A month ago,
however, a dear friend, whom I have known for many years, has done me the honour to ask my hand in
marriage. His name is Armitage--Percy Armitage--the second son of Mr. Armitage, of Crane Water, near
Reading. My stepfather has offered no opposition to the match, and we are to be married in the course of the
spring. Two days ago some repairs were started in the west wing of the building, and my bedroom wall has
been pierced, so that I have had to move into the chamber in which my sister died, and to sleep in the very bed
in which she slept. Imagine, then, my thrill of terror when last night, as I lay awake, thinking over her terrible
fate, I suddenly heard in the silence of the night the low whistle which had been the herald of her own death. I
sprang up and lit the lamp, but nothing was to be seen in the room. I was too shaken to go to bed again,
however, so I dressed, and as soon as it was daylight I slipped down, got a dog-cart at the Crown Inn, which is
opposite, and drove to Leatherhead, from whence I have come on this morning with the one object of seeing
you and asking your advice."
"You have done wisely," said my friend. "But have you told me all?"
"Yes, all."
"Miss Roylott, you have not. You are screening your stepfather."
"Why, what do you mean?"
For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which fringed the hand that lay upon our visitor's knee.
Five little livid spots, the marks of four fingers and a thumb, were printed upon the white wrist.
"You have been cruelly used," said Holmes.
The lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist. "He is a hard man," she said, "and perhaps he
hardly knows his own strength."
There was a long silence, during which Holmes leaned his chin upon his hands and stared into the crackling
fire.
"This is a very deep business," he said at last. "There are a thousand details which I should desire to know
before I decide upon our course of action. Yet we have not a moment to lose. If we were to come to StokeThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 106
Moran to-day, would it be possible for us to see over these rooms without the knowledge of your stepfather?"
"As it happens, he spoke of coming into town to-day upon some most important business. It is probable that
he will be away all day, and that there would be nothing to disturb you. We have a housekeeper now, but she
is old and foolish, and I could easily get her out of the way."
"Excellent. You are not averse to this trip, Watson?"
"By no means."
"Then we shall both come. What are you going to do yourself?"
"I have one or two things which I would wish to do now that I am in town. But I shall return by the twelve
o'clock train, so as to be there in time for your coming."
"And you may expect us early in the afternoon. I have myself some small business matters to attend to. Will
you not wait and breakfast?"
"No, I must go. My heart is lightened already since I have confided my trouble to you. I shall look forward to
seeing you again this afternoon." She dropped her thick black veil over her face and glided from the room.
"And what do you think of it all, Watson?" asked Sherlock Holmes, leaning back in his chair.
"It seems to me to be a most dark and sinister business."
"Dark enough and sinister enough."
"Yet if the lady is correct in saying that the flooring and walls are sound, and that the door, window, and
chimney are impassable, then her sister must have been undoubtedly alone when she met her mysterious end."
"What becomes, then, of these nocturnal whistles, and what of the very peculiar words of the dying woman?"
"I cannot think."
"When you combine the ideas of whistles at night, the presence of a band of gipsies who are on intimate terms
with this old doctor, the fact that we have every reason to believe that the doctor has an interest in preventing
his stepdaughter's marriage, the dying allusion to a band, and, finally, the fact that Miss Helen Stoner heard a
metallic clang, which might have been caused by one of those metal bars that secured the shutters falling back
into its place, I think that there is good ground to think that the mystery may be cleared along those lines."
"But what, then, did the gipsies do?"
"I cannot imagine."
"I see many objections to any such theory."
"And so do I. It is precisely for that reason that we are going to Stoke Moran this day. I want to see whether
the objections are fatal, or if they may be explained away. But what in the name of the devil!"
The ejaculation had been drawn from my companion by the fact that our door had been suddenly dashed open,
and that a huge man had framed himself in the aperture. His costume was a peculiar mixture of the
professional and of the agricultural, having a black top-hat, a long frock-coat, and a pair of high gaiters, with aThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 107
hunting-crop swinging in his hand. So tall was he that his hat actually brushed the cross bar of the doorway,
and his breadth seemed to span it across from side to side. A large face, seared with a thousand wrinkles,
burned yellow with the sun, and marked with every evil passion, was turned from one to the other of us, while
his deep-set, bile-shot eyes, and his high, thin, fleshless nose, gave him somewhat the resemblance to a fierce
old bird of prey.
"Which of you is Holmes?" asked this apparition.
"My name, sir; but you have the advantage of me," said my companion quietly.
"I am Dr. Grimesby Roylott, of Stoke Moran."
"Indeed, Doctor," said Holmes blandly. "Pray take a seat."
"I will do nothing of the kind. My stepdaughter has been here. I have traced her. What has she been saying to
you?"
"It is a little cold for the time of the year," said Holmes.
"What has she been saying to you?" screamed the old man furiously.
"But I have heard that the crocuses promise well," continued my companion imperturbably.
"Ha! You put me off, do you?" said our new visitor, taking a step forward and shaking his hunting-crop. "I
know you, you scoundrel! I have heard of you before. You are Holmes, the meddler."
My friend smiled.
"Holmes, the busybody!"
His smile broadened.
"Holmes, the Scotland Yard Jack-in-office!"
Holmes chuckled heartily. "Your conversation is most entertaining," said he. "When you go out close the
door, for there is a decided draught."
"I will go when I have said my say. Don't you dare to meddle with my affairs. I know that Miss Stoner has
been here. I traced her! I am a dangerous man to fall foul of! See here." He stepped swiftly forward, seized the
poker, and bent it into a curve with his huge brown hands.
"See that you keep yourself out of my grip," he snarled, and hurling the twisted poker into the fireplace he
strode out of the room.
"He seems a very amiable person," said Holmes, laughing. "I am not quite so bulky, but if he had remained I
might have shown him that my grip was not much more feeble than his own." As he spoke he picked up the
steel poker and, with a sudden effort, straightened it out again.
"Fancy his having the insolence to confound me with the official detective force! This incident gives zest to
our investigation, however, and I only trust that our little friend will not suffer from her imprudence in
allowing this brute to trace her. And now, Watson, we shall order breakfast, and afterwards I shall walk down
to Doctors' Commons, where I hope to get some data which may help us in this matter."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 108
It was nearly one o'clock when Sherlock Holmes returned from his excursion. He held in his hand a sheet of
blue paper, scrawled over with notes and figures.
"I have seen the will of the deceased wife," said he. "To determine its exact meaning I have been obliged to
work out the present prices of the investments with which it is concerned. The total income, which at the time
of the wife's death was little short of 1100 pounds, is now, through the fall in agricultural prices, not more
than 750 pounds. Each daughter can claim an income of 250 pounds, in case of marriage. It is evident,
therefore, that if both girls had married, this beauty would have had a mere pittance, while even one of them
would cripple him to a very serious extent. My morning's work has not been wasted, since it has proved that
he has the very strongest motives for standing in the way of anything of the sort. And now, Watson, this is too
serious for dawdling, especially as the old man is aware that we are interesting ourselves in his affairs; so if
you are ready, we shall call a cab and drive to Waterloo. I should be very much obliged if you would slip your
revolver into your pocket. An Eley's No. 2 is an excellent argument with gentlemen who can twist steel pokers
into knots. That and a tooth-brush are, I think, all that we need."
At Waterloo we were fortunate in catching a train for Leatherhead, where we hired a trap at the station inn and
drove for four or five miles through the lovely Surrey lanes. It was a perfect day, with a bright sun and a few
fleecy clouds in the heavens. The trees and wayside hedges were just throwing out their first green shoots, and
the air was full of the pleasant smell of the moist earth. To me at least there was a strange contrast between the
sweet promise of the spring and this sinister quest upon which we were engaged. My companion sat in the
front of the trap, his arms folded, his hat pulled down over his eyes, and his chin sunk upon his breast, buried
in the deepest thought. Suddenly, however, he started, tapped me on the shoulder, and pointed over the
meadows.
"Look there!" said he.
A heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentle slope, thickening into a grove at the highest point. From amid
the branches there jutted out the grey gables and high roof-tree of a very old mansion.
"Stoke Moran?" said he.
"Yes, sir, that be the house of Dr. Grimesby Roylott," remarked the driver.
"There is some building going on there," said Holmes; "that is where we are going."
"There's the village," said the driver, pointing to a cluster of roofs some distance to the left; "but if you want to
get to the house, you'll find it shorter to get over this stile, and so by the foot-path over the fields. There it is,
where the lady is walking."
"And the lady, I fancy, is Miss Stoner," observed Holmes, shading his eyes. "Yes, I think we had better do as
you suggest."
We got off, paid our fare, and the trap rattled back on its way to Leatherhead.
"I thought it as well," said Holmes as we climbed the stile, "that this fellow should think we had come here as
architects, or on some definite business. It may stop his gossip. Good-afternoon, Miss Stoner. You see that we
have been as good as our word."
Our client of the morning had hurried forward to meet us with a face which spoke her joy. "I have been
waiting so eagerly for you," she cried, shaking hands with us warmly. "All has turned out splendidly. Dr.
Roylott has gone to town, and it is unlikely that he will be back before evening."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 109
"We have had the pleasure of making the doctor's acquaintance," said Holmes, and in a few words he sketched
out what had occurred. Miss Stoner turned white to the lips as she listened.
"Good heavens!" she cried, "he has followed me, then."
"So it appears."
"He is so cunning that I never know when I am safe from him. What will he say when he returns?"
"He must guard himself, for he may find that there is someone more cunning than himself upon his track. You
must lock yourself up from him to-night. If he is violent, we shall take you away to your aunt's at Harrow.
Now, we must make the best use of our time, so kindly take us at once to the rooms which we are to
examine."
The building was of grey, lichen-blotched stone, with a high central portion and two curving wings, like the
claws of a crab, thrown out on each side. In one of these wings the windows were broken and blocked with
wooden boards, while the roof was partly caved in, a picture of ruin. The central portion was in little better
repair, but the right-hand block was comparatively modern, and the blinds in the windows, with the blue
smoke curling up from the chimneys, showed that this was where the family resided. Some scaffolding had
been erected against the end wall, and the stone-work had been broken into, but there were no signs of any
workmen at the moment of our visit. Holmes walked slowly up and down the ill-trimmed lawn and examined
with deep attention the outsides of the windows.
"This, I take it, belongs to the room in which you used to sleep, the centre one to your sister's, and the one
next to the main building to Dr. Roylott's chamber?"
"Exactly so. But I am now sleeping in the middle one."
"Pending the alterations, as I understand. By the way, there does not seem to be any very pressing need for
repairs at that end wall."
"There were none. I believe that it was an excuse to move me from my room."
"Ah! that is suggestive. Now, on the other side of this narrow wing runs the corridor from which these three
rooms open. There are windows in it, of course?"
"Yes, but very small ones. Too narrow for anyone to pass through."
"As you both locked your doors at night, your rooms were unapproachable from that side. Now, would you
have the kindness to go into your room and bar your shutters?"
Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after a careful examination through the open window, endeavoured in every
way to force the shutter open, but without success. There was no slit through which a knife could be passed to
raise the bar. Then with his lens he tested the hinges, but they were of solid iron, built firmly into the massive
masonry. "Hum!" said he, scratching his chin in some perplexity, "my theory certainly presents some
difficulties. No one could pass these shutters if they were bolted. Well, we shall see if the inside throws any
light upon the matter."
A small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which the three bedrooms opened. Holmes refused
to examine the third chamber, so we passed at once to the second, that in which Miss Stoner was now
sleeping, and in which her sister had met with her fate. It was a homely little room, with a low ceiling and a
gaping fireplace, after the fashion of old country-houses. A brown chest of drawers stood in one corner, aThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 110
narrow white-counterpaned bed in another, and a dressing-table on the left-hand side of the window. These
articles, with two small wicker-work chairs, made up all the furniture in the room save for a square of Wilton
carpet in the centre. The boards round and the panelling of the walls were of brown, worm-eaten oak, so old
and discoloured that it may have dated from the original building of the house. Holmes drew one of the chairs
into a corner and sat silent, while his eyes travelled round and round and up and down, taking in every detail
of the apartment.
"Where does that bell communicate with?" he asked at last pointing to a thick bell-rope which hung down
beside the bed, the tassel actually lying upon the pillow.
"It goes to the housekeeper's room."
"It looks newer than the other things?"
"Yes, it was only put there a couple of years ago."
"Your sister asked for it, I suppose?"
"No, I never heard of her using it. We used always to get what we wanted for ourselves."
"Indeed, it seemed unnecessary to put so nice a bell-pull there. You will excuse me for a few minutes while I
satisfy myself as to this floor." He threw himself down upon his face with his lens in his hand and crawled
swiftly backward and forward, examining minutely the cracks between the boards. Then he did the same with
the wood-work with which the chamber was panelled. Finally he walked over to the bed and spent some time
in staring at it and in running his eye up and down the wall. Finally he took the bell-rope in his hand and gave
it a brisk tug.
"Why, it's a dummy," said he.
"Won't it ring?"
"No, it is not even attached to a wire. This is very interesting. You can see now that it is fastened to a hook
just above where the little opening for the ventilator is."
"How very absurd! I never noticed that before."
"Very strange!" muttered Holmes, pulling at the rope. "There are one or two very singular points about this
room. For example, what a fool a builder must be to open a ventilator into another room, when, with the same
trouble, he might have communicated with the outside air!"
"That is also quite modern," said the lady.
"Done about the same time as the bell-rope?" remarked Holmes.
"Yes, there were several little changes carried out about that time."
"They seem to have been of a most interesting character--dummy bell-ropes, and ventilators which do not
ventilate. With your permission, Miss Stoner, we shall now carry our researches into the inner apartment."
Dr. Grimesby Roylott's chamber was larger than that of his step-daughter, but was as plainly furnished. A
camp-bed, a small wooden shelf full of books, mostly of a technical character, an armchair beside the bed, a
plain wooden chair against the wall, a round table, and a large iron safe were the principal things which metThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 111
the eye. Holmes walked slowly round and examined each and all of them with the keenest interest.
"What's in here?" he asked, tapping the safe.
"My stepfather's business papers."
"Oh! you have seen inside, then?"
"Only once, some years ago. I remember that it was full of papers."
"There isn't a cat in it, for example?"
"No. What a strange idea!"
"Well, look at this!" He took up a small saucer of milk which stood on the top of it.
"No; we don't keep a cat. But there is a cheetah and a baboon."
"Ah, yes, of course! Well, a cheetah is just a big cat, and yet a saucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying
its wants, I daresay. There is one point which I should wish to determine." He squatted down in front of the
wooden chair and examined the seat of it with the greatest attention.
"Thank you. That is quite settled," said he, rising and putting his lens in his pocket. "Hullo! Here is something
interesting!"
The object which had caught his eye was a small dog lash hung on one corner of the bed. The lash, however,
was curled upon itself and tied so as to make a loop of whipcord.
"What do you make of that, Watson?"
"It's a common enough lash. But I don't know why it should be tied."
"That is not quite so common, is it? Ah, me! it's a wicked world, and when a clever man turns his brains to
crime it is the worst of all. I think that I have seen enough now, Miss Stoner, and with your permission we
shall walk out upon the lawn."
I had never seen my friend's face so grim or his brow so dark as it was when we turned from the scene of this
investigation. We had walked several times up and down the lawn, neither Miss Stoner nor myself liking to
break in upon his thoughts before he roused himself from his reverie.
"It is very essential, Miss Stoner," said he, "that you should absolutely follow my advice in every respect."
"I shall most certainly do so."
"The matter is too serious for any hesitation. Your life may depend upon your compliance."
"I assure you that I am in your hands."
"In the first place, both my friend and I must spend the night in your room."
Both Miss Stoner and I gazed at him in astonishment.The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 112
"Yes, it must be so. Let me explain. I believe that that is the village inn over there?"
"Yes, that is the Crown."
"Very good. Your windows would be visible from there?"
"Certainly."
"You must confine yourself to your room, on pretence of a headache, when your stepfather comes back. Then
when you hear him retire for the night, you must open the shutters of your window, undo the hasp, put your
lamp there as a signal to us, and then withdraw quietly with everything which you are likely to want into the
room which you used to occupy. I have no doubt that, in spite of the repairs, you could manage there for one
night."
"Oh, yes, easily."
"The rest you will leave in our hands."
"But what will you do?"
"We shall spend the night in your room, and we shall investigate the cause of this noise which has disturbed
you."
"I believe, Mr. Holmes, that you have already made up your mind," said Miss Stoner, laying her hand upon
my companion's sleeve.
"Perhaps I have."
"Then, for pity's sake, tell me what was the cause of my sister's death."
"I should prefer to have clearer proofs before I speak."
"You can at least tell me whether my own thought is correct, and if she died from some sudden fright."
"No, I do not think so. I think that there was probably some more tangible cause. And now, Miss Stoner, we
must leave you for if Dr. Roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain. Good-bye, and be brave,
for if you will do what I have told you, you may rest assured that we shall soon drive away the dangers that
threaten you."
Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and sitting-room at the Crown Inn. They were
on the upper floor, and from our window we could command a view of the avenue gate, and of the inhabited
wing of Stoke Moran Manor House. At dusk we saw Dr. Grimesby Roylott drive past, his huge form looming
up beside the little figure of the lad who drove him. The boy had some slight difficulty in undoing the heavy
iron gates, and we heard the hoarse roar of the doctor's voice and saw the fury with which he shook his
clinched fists at him. The trap drove on, and a few minutes later we saw a sudden light spring up among the
trees as the lamp was lit in one of the sitting-rooms.
"Do you know, Watson," said Holmes as we sat together in the gathering darkness, "I have really some
scruples as to taking you to-night. There is a distinct element of danger."
"Can I be of assistance?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 113
"Your presence might be invaluable."
"Then I shall certainly come."
"It is very kind of you."
"You speak of danger. You have evidently seen more in these rooms than was visible to me."
"No, but I fancy that I may have deduced a little more. I imagine that you saw all that I did."
"I saw nothing remarkable save the bell-rope, and what purpose that could answer I confess is more than I can
imagine."
"You saw the ventilator, too?"
"Yes, but I do not think that it is such a very unusual thing to have a small opening between two rooms. It was
so small that a rat could hardly pass through."
"I knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came to Stoke Moran."
"My dear Holmes!"
"Oh, yes, I did. You remember in her statement she said that her sister could smell Dr. Roylott's cigar. Now,
of course that suggested at once that there must be a communication between the two rooms. It could only be
a small one, or it would have been remarked upon at the coroner's inquiry. I deduced a ventilator."
"But what harm can there be in that?"
"Well, there is at least a curious coincidence of dates. A ventilator is made, a cord is hung, and a lady who
sleeps in the bed dies. Does not that strike you?"
"I cannot as yet see any connection."
"Did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed?"
"No."
"It was clamped to the floor. Did you ever see a bed fastened like that before?"
"I cannot say that I have."
"The lady could not move her bed. It must always be in the same relative position to the ventilator and to the
rope--or so we may call it, since it was clearly never meant for a bell-pull."
"Holmes," I cried, "I seem to see dimly what you are hinting at. We are only just in time to prevent some
subtle and horrible crime."
"Subtle enough and horrible enough. When a doctor does go wrong he is the first of criminals. He has nerve
and he has knowledge. Palmer and Pritchard were among the heads of their profession. This man strikes even
deeper, but I think, Watson, that we shall be able to strike deeper still. But we shall have horrors enough
before the night is over; for goodness' sake let us have a quiet pipe and turn our minds for a few hours to
something more cheerful."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 114
About nine o'clock the light among the trees was extinguished, and all was dark in the direction of the Manor
House. Two hours passed slowly away, and then, suddenly, just at the stroke of eleven, a single bright light
shone out right in front of us.
"That is our signal," said Holmes, springing to his feet; "it comes from the middle window."
As we passed out he exchanged a few words with the landlord, explaining that we were going on a late visit to
an acquaintance, and that it was possible that we might spend the night there. A moment later we were out on
the dark road, a chill wind blowing in our faces, and one yellow light twinkling in front of us through the
gloom to guide us on our sombre errand.
There was little difficulty in entering the grounds, for unrepaired breaches gaped in the old park wall. Making
our way among the trees, we reached the lawn, crossed it, and were about to enter through the window when
out from a clump of laurel bushes there darted what seemed to be a hideous and distorted child, who threw
itself upon the grass with writhing limbs and then ran swiftly across the lawn into the darkness.
"My God!" I whispered; "did you see it?"
Holmes was for the moment as startled as I. His hand closed like a vice upon my wrist in his agitation. Then
he broke into a low laugh and put his lips to my ear.
"It is a nice household," he murmured. "That is the baboon."
I had forgotten the strange pets which the doctor affected. There was a cheetah, too; perhaps we might find it
upon our shoulders at any moment. I confess that I felt easier in my mind when, after following Holmes'
example and slipping off my shoes, I found myself inside the bedroom. My companion noiselessly closed the
shutters, moved the lamp onto the table, and cast his eyes round the room. All was as we had seen it in the
daytime. Then creeping up to me and making a trumpet of his hand, he whispered into my ear again so gently
that it was all that I could do to distinguish the words:
"The least sound would be fatal to our plans."
I nodded to show that I had heard.
"We must sit without light. He would see it through the ventilator."
I nodded again.
"Do not go asleep; your very life may depend upon it. Have your pistol ready in case we should need it. I will
sit on the side of the bed, and you in that chair."
I took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the table.
Holmes had brought up a long thin cane, and this he placed upon the bed beside him. By it he laid the box of
matches and the stump of a candle. Then he turned down the lamp, and we were left in darkness.
How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil? I could not hear a sound, not even the drawing of a breath, and yet
I knew that my companion sat open-eyed, within a few feet of me, in the same state of nervous tension in
which I was myself. The shutters cut off the least ray of light, and we waited in absolute darkness.
From outside came the occasional cry of a night-bird, and once at our very window a long drawn catlike
whine, which told us that the cheetah was indeed at liberty. Far away we could hear the deep tones of theThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 115
parish clock, which boomed out every quarter of an hour. How long they seemed, those quarters! Twelve
struck, and one and two and three, and still we sat waiting silently for whatever might befall.
Suddenly there was the momentary gleam of a light up in the direction of the ventilator, which vanished
immediately, but was succeeded by a strong smell of burning oil and heated metal. Someone in the next room
had lit a dark-lantern. I heard a gentle sound of movement, and then all was silent once more, though the smell
grew stronger. For half an hour I sat with straining ears. Then suddenly another sound became audible--a very
gentle, soothing sound, like that of a small jet of steam escaping continually from a kettle. The instant that we
heard it, Holmes sprang from the bed, struck a match, and lashed furiously with his cane at the bell-pull.
"You see it, Watson?" he yelled. "You see it?"
But I saw nothing. At the moment when Holmes struck the light I heard a low, clear whistle, but the sudden
glare flashing into my weary eyes made it impossible for me to tell what it was at which my friend lashed so
savagely. I could, however, see that his face was deadly pale and filled with horror and loathing. He had
ceased to strike and was gazing up at the ventilator when suddenly there broke from the silence of the night
the most horrible cry to which I have ever listened. It swelled up louder and louder, a hoarse yell of pain and
fear and anger all mingled in the one dreadful shriek. They say that away down in the village, and even in the
distant parsonage, that cry raised the sleepers from their beds. It struck cold to our hearts, and I stood gazing
at Holmes, and he at me, until the last echoes of it had died away into the silence from which it rose.
"What can it mean?" I gasped.
"It means that it is all over," Holmes answered. "And perhaps, after all, it is for the best. Take your pistol, and
we will enter Dr. Roylott's room."
With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the corridor. Twice he struck at the chamber door
without any reply from within. Then he turned the handle and entered, I at his heels, with the cocked pistol in
my hand.
It was a singular sight which met our eyes. On the table stood a dark-lantern with the shutter half open,
throwing a brilliant beam of light upon the iron safe, the door of which was ajar. Beside this table, on the
wooden chair, sat Dr. Grimesby Roylott clad in a long grey dressing-gown, his bare ankles protruding
beneath, and his feet thrust into red heelless Turkish slippers. Across his lap lay the short stock with the long
lash which we had noticed during the day. His chin was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful,
rigid stare at the corner of the ceiling. Round his brow he had a peculiar yellow band, with brownish speckles,
which seemed to be bound tightly round his head. As we entered he made neither sound nor motion.
"The band! the speckled band!" whispered Holmes.
I took a step forward. In an instant his strange headgear began to move, and there reared itself from among his
hair the squat diamond-shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent.
"It is a swamp adder!" cried Holmes; "the deadliest snake in India. He has died within ten seconds of being
bitten. Violence does, in truth, recoil upon the violent, and the schemer falls into the pit which he digs for
another. Let us thrust this creature back into its den, and we can then remove Miss Stoner to some place of
shelter and let the county police know what has happened."
As he spoke he drew the dog-whip swiftly from the dead man's lap, and throwing the noose round the reptile's
neck he drew it from its horrid perch and, carrying it at arm's length, threw it into the iron safe, which he
closed upon it.The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 116
Such are the true facts of the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott, of Stoke Moran. It is not necessary that I should
prolong a narrative which has already run to too great a length by telling how we broke the sad news to the
terrified girl, how we conveyed her by the morning train to the care of her good aunt at Harrow, of how the
slow process of official inquiry came to the conclusion that the doctor met his fate while indiscreetly playing
with a dangerous pet. The little which I had yet to learn of the case was told me by Sherlock Holmes as we
travelled back next day.
"I had," said he, "come to an entirely erroneous conclusion which shows, my dear Watson, how dangerous it
always is to reason from insufficient data. The presence of the gipsies, and the use of the word 'band,' which
was used by the poor girl, no doubt, to explain the appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of by
the light of her match, were sufficient to put me upon an entirely wrong scent. I can only claim the merit that I
instantly reconsidered my position when, however, it became clear to me that whatever danger threatened an
occupant of the room could not come either from the window or the door. My attention was speedily drawn,
as I have already remarked to you, to this ventilator, and to the bell-rope which hung down to the bed. The
discovery that this was a dummy, and that the bed was clamped to the floor, instantly gave rise to the
suspicion that the rope was there as a bridge for something passing through the hole and coming to the bed.
The idea of a snake instantly occurred to me, and when I coupled it with my knowledge that the doctor was
furnished with a supply of creatures from India, I felt that I was probably on the right track. The idea of using
a form of poison which could not possibly be discovered by any chemical test was just such a one as would
occur to a clever and ruthless man who had had an Eastern training. The rapidity with which such a poison
would take effect would also, from his point of view, be an advantage. It would be a sharp-eyed coroner,
indeed, who could distinguish the two little dark punctures which would show where the poison fangs had
done their work. Then I thought of the whistle. Of course he must recall the snake before the morning light
revealed it to the victim. He had trained it, probably by the use of the milk which we saw, to return to him
when summoned. He would put it through this ventilator at the hour that he thought best, with the certainty
that it would crawl down the rope and land on the bed. It might or might not bite the occupant, perhaps she
might escape every night for a week, but sooner or later she must fall a victim.
"I had come to these conclusions before ever I had entered his room. An inspection of his chair showed me
that he had been in the habit of standing on it, which of course would be necessary in order that he should
reach the ventilator. The sight of the safe, the saucer of milk, and the loop of whipcord were enough to finally
dispel any doubts which may have remained. The metallic clang heard by Miss Stoner was obviously caused
by her stepfather hastily closing the door of his safe upon its terrible occupant. Having once made up my
mind, you know the steps which I took in order to put the matter to the proof. I heard the creature hiss as I
have no doubt that you did also, and I instantly lit the light and attacked it."
"With the result of driving it through the ventilator."
"And also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master at the other side. Some of the blows of my cane
came home and roused its snakish temper, so that it flew upon the first person it saw. In this way I am no
doubt indirectly responsible for Dr. Grimesby Roylott's death, and I cannot say that it is likely to weigh very
heavily upon my conscience."
IX. THE ADVENTURE OF THE ENGINEER'S THUMB
Of all the problems which have been submitted to my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, for solution during the
years of our intimacy, there were only two which I was the means of introducing to his notice--that of Mr.
Hatherley's thumb, and that of Colonel Warburton's madness. Of these the latter may have afforded a finer
field for an acute and original observer, but the other was so strange in its inception and so dramatic in its
details that it may be the more worthy of being placed upon record, even if it gave my friend fewer openings
for those deductive methods of reasoning by which he achieved such remarkable results. The story has, I
believe, been told more than once in the newspapers, but, like all such narratives, its effect is much lessThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 117
striking when set forth en bloc in a single half-column of print than when the facts slowly evolve before your
own eyes, and the mystery clears gradually away as each new discovery furnishes a step which leads on to the
complete truth. At the time the circumstances made a deep impression upon me, and the lapse of two years
has hardly served to weaken the effect.
It was in the summer of '89, not long after my marriage, that the events occurred which I am now about to
summarise. I had returned to civil practice and had finally abandoned Holmes in his Baker Street rooms,
although I continually visited him and occasionally even persuaded him to forgo his Bohemian habits so far as
to come and visit us. My practice had steadily increased, and as I happened to live at no very great distance
from Paddington Station, I got a few patients from among the officials. One of these, whom I had cured of a
painful and lingering disease, was never weary of advertising my virtues and of endeavouring to send me on
every sufferer over whom he might have any influence.
One morning, at a little before seven o'clock, I was awakened by the maid tapping at the door to announce that
two men had come from Paddington and were waiting in the consulting-room. I dressed hurriedly, for I knew
by experience that railway cases were seldom trivial, and hastened downstairs. As I descended, my old ally,
the guard, came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him.
"I've got him here," he whispered, jerking his thumb over his shoulder; "he's all right."
"What is it, then?" I asked, for his manner suggested that it was some strange creature which he had caged up
in my room.
"It's a new patient," he whispered. "I thought I'd bring him round myself; then he couldn't slip away. There he
is, all safe and sound. I must go now, Doctor; I have my dooties, just the same as you." And off he went, this
trusty tout, without even giving me time to thank him.
I entered my consulting-room and found a gentleman seated by the table. He was quietly dressed in a suit of
heather tweed with a soft cloth cap which he had laid down upon my books. Round one of his hands he had a
handkerchief wrapped, which was mottled all over with bloodstains. He was young, not more than
five-and-twenty, I should say, with a strong, masculine face; but he was exceedingly pale and gave me the
impression of a man who was suffering from some strong agitation, which it took all his strength of mind to
control.
"I am sorry to knock you up so early, Doctor," said he, "but I have had a very serious accident during the
night. I came in by train this morning, and on inquiring at Paddington as to where I might find a doctor, a
worthy fellow very kindly escorted me here. I gave the maid a card, but I see that she has left it upon the
side-table."
I took it up and glanced at it. "Mr. Victor Hatherley, hydraulic engineer, 16A, Victoria Street (3rd floor)."
That was the name, style, and abode of my morning visitor. "I regret that I have kept you waiting," said I,
sitting down in my library-chair. "You are fresh from a night journey, I understand, which is in itself a
monotonous occupation."
"Oh, my night could not be called monotonous," said he, and laughed. He laughed very heartily, with a high,
ringing note, leaning back in his chair and shaking his sides. All my medical instincts rose up against that
laugh.
"Stop it!" I cried; "pull yourself together!" and I poured out some water from a caraffe.
It was useless, however. He was off in one of those hysterical outbursts which come upon a strong nature
when some great crisis is over and gone. Presently he came to himself once more, very weary andThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 118
pale-looking.
"I have been making a fool of myself," he gasped.
"Not at all. Drink this." I dashed some brandy into the water, and the colour began to come back to his
bloodless cheeks.
"That's better!" said he. "And now, Doctor, perhaps you would kindly attend to my thumb, or rather to the
place where my thumb used to be."
He unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand. It gave even my hardened nerves a shudder to look at it.
There were four protruding fingers and a horrid red, spongy surface where the thumb should have been. It had
been hacked or torn right out from the roots.
"Good heavens!" I cried, "this is a terrible injury. It must have bled considerably."
"Yes, it did. I fainted when it was done, and I think that I must have been senseless for a long time. When I
came to I found that it was still bleeding, so I tied one end of my handkerchief very tightly round the wrist and
braced it up with a twig."
"Excellent! You should have been a surgeon."
"It is a question of hydraulics, you see, and came within my own province."
"This has been done," said I, examining the wound, "by a very heavy and sharp instrument."
"A thing like a cleaver," said he.
"An accident, I presume?"
"By no means."
"What! a murderous attack?"
"Very murderous indeed."
"You horrify me."
I sponged the wound, cleaned it, dressed it, and finally covered it over with cotton wadding and carbolised
bandages. He lay back without wincing, though he bit his lip from time to time.
"How is that?" I asked when I had finished.
"Capital! Between your brandy and your bandage, I feel a new man. I was very weak, but I have had a good
deal to go through."
"Perhaps you had better not speak of the matter. It is evidently trying to your nerves."
"Oh, no, not now. I shall have to tell my tale to the police; but, between ourselves, if it were not for the
convincing evidence of this wound of mine, I should be surprised if they believed my statement, for it is a
very extraordinary one, and I have not much in the way of proof with which to back it up; and, even if they
believe me, the clues which I can give them are so vague that it is a question whether justice will be done."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 119
"Ha!" cried I, "if it is anything in the nature of a problem which you desire to see solved, I should strongly
recommend you to come to my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, before you go to the official police."
"Oh, I have heard of that fellow," answered my visitor, "and I should be very glad if he would take the matter
up, though of course I must use the official police as well. Would you give me an introduction to him?"
"I'll do better. I'll take you round to him myself."
"I should be immensely obliged to you."
"We'll call a cab and go together. We shall just be in time to have a little breakfast with him. Do you feel
equal to it?"
"Yes; I shall not feel easy until I have told my story."
"Then my servant will call a cab, and I shall be with you in an instant." I rushed upstairs, explained the matter
shortly to my wife, and in five minutes was inside a hansom, driving with my new acquaintance to Baker
Street.
Sherlock Holmes was, as I expected, lounging about his sitting-room in his dressing-gown, reading the agony
column of The Times and smoking his before-breakfast pipe, which was composed of all the plugs and dottles
left from his smokes of the day before, all carefully dried and collected on the corner of the mantelpiece. He
received us in his quietly genial fashion, ordered fresh rashers and eggs, and joined us in a hearty meal. When
it was concluded he settled our new acquaintance upon the sofa, placed a pillow beneath his head, and laid a
glass of brandy and water within his reach.
"It is easy to see that your experience has been no common one, Mr. Hatherley," said he. "Pray, lie down there
and make yourself absolutely at home. Tell us what you can, but stop when you are tired and keep up your
strength with a little stimulant."
"Thank you," said my patient. "but I have felt another man since the doctor bandaged me, and I think that your
breakfast has completed the cure. I shall take up as little of your valuable time as possible, so I shall start at
once upon my peculiar experiences."
Holmes sat in his big armchair with the weary, heavy-lidded expression which veiled his keen and eager
nature, while I sat opposite to him, and we listened in silence to the strange story which our visitor detailed to
us.
"You must know," said he, "that I am an orphan and a bachelor, residing alone in lodgings in London. By
profession I am a hydraulic engineer, and I have had considerable experience of my work during the seven
years that I was apprenticed to Venner & Matheson, the well-known firm, of Greenwich. Two years ago,
having served my time, and having also come into a fair sum of money through my poor father's death, I
determined to start in business for myself and took professional chambers in Victoria Street.
"I suppose that everyone finds his first independent start in business a dreary experience. To me it has been
exceptionally so. During two years I have had three consultations and one small job, and that is absolutely all
that my profession has brought me. My gross takings amount to 27 pounds 10s. Every day, from nine in the
morning until four in the afternoon, I waited in my little den, until at last my heart began to sink, and I came
to believe that I should never have any practice at all.
"Yesterday, however, just as I was thinking of leaving the office, my clerk entered to say there was a
gentleman waiting who wished to see me upon business. He brought up a card, too, with the name of 'ColonelThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 120
Lysander Stark' engraved upon it. Close at his heels came the colonel himself, a man rather over the middle
size, but of an exceeding thinness. I do not think that I have ever seen so thin a man. His whole face sharpened
away into nose and chin, and the skin of his cheeks was drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones. Yet this
emaciation seemed to be his natural habit, and due to no disease, for his eye was bright, his step brisk, and his
bearing assured. He was plainly but neatly dressed, and his age, I should judge, would be nearer forty than
thirty.
"'Mr. Hatherley?' said he, with something of a German accent. 'You have been recommended to me, Mr.
Hatherley, as being a man who is not only proficient in his profession but is also discreet and capable of
preserving a secret.'
"I bowed, feeling as flattered as any young man would at such an address. 'May I ask who it was who gave me
so good a character?'
"'Well, perhaps it is better that I should not tell you that just at this moment. I have it from the same source
that you are both an orphan and a bachelor and are residing alone in London.'
"'That is quite correct,' I answered; 'but you will excuse me if I say that I cannot see how all this bears upon
my professional qualifications. I understand that it was on a professional matter that you wished to speak to
me?'
"'Undoubtedly so. But you will find that all I say is really to the point. I have a professional commission for
you, but absolute secrecy is quite essential--absolute secrecy, you understand, and of course we may expect
that more from a man who is alone than from one who lives in the bosom of his family.'
"'If I promise to keep a secret,' said I, 'you may absolutely depend upon my doing so.'
"He looked very hard at me as I spoke, and it seemed to me that I had never seen so suspicious and
questioning an eye.
"'Do you promise, then?' said he at last.
"'Yes, I promise.'
"'Absolute and complete silence before, during, and after? No reference to the matter at all, either in word or
writing?'
"'I have already given you my word.'
"'Very good.' He suddenly sprang up, and darting like lightning across the room he flung open the door. The
passage outside was empty.
"'That's all right,' said he, coming back. 'I know that clerks are sometimes curious as to their master's affairs.
Now we can talk in safety.' He drew up his chair very close to mine and began to stare at me again with the
same questioning and thoughtful look.
"A feeling of repulsion, and of something akin to fear had begun to rise within me at the strange antics of this
fleshless man. Even my dread of losing a client could not restrain me from showing my impatience.
"'I beg that you will state your business, sir,' said I; 'my time is of value.' Heaven forgive me for that last
sentence, but the words came to my lips.The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 121
"'How would fifty guineas for a night's work suit you?' he asked.
"'Most admirably.'
"'I say a night's work, but an hour's would be nearer the mark. I simply want your opinion about a hydraulic
stamping machine which has got out of gear. If you show us what is wrong we shall soon set it right
ourselves. What do you think of such a commission as that?'
"'The work appears to be light and the pay munificent.'
"'Precisely so. We shall want you to come to-night by the last train.'
"'Where to?'
"'To Eyford, in Berkshire. It is a little place near the borders of Oxfordshire, and within seven miles of
Reading. There is a train from Paddington which would bring you there at about 11:15.'
"'Very good.'
"'I shall come down in a carriage to meet you.'
"'There is a drive, then?'
"'Yes, our little place is quite out in the country. It is a good seven miles from Eyford Station.'
"'Then we can hardly get there before midnight. I suppose there would be no chance of a train back. I should
be compelled to stop the night.'
"'Yes, we could easily give you a shake-down.'
"'That is very awkward. Could I not come at some more convenient hour?'
"'We have judged it best that you should come late. It is to recompense you for any inconvenience that we are
paying to you, a young and unknown man, a fee which would buy an opinion from the very heads of your
profession. Still, of course, if you would like to draw out of the business, there is plenty of time to do so.'
"I thought of the fifty guineas, and of how very useful they would be to me. 'Not at all,' said I, 'I shall be very
happy to accommodate myself to your wishes. I should like, however, to understand a little more clearly what
it is that you wish me to do.'
"'Quite so. It is very natural that the pledge of secrecy which we have exacted from you should have aroused
your curiosity. I have no wish to commit you to anything without your having it all laid before you. I suppose
that we are absolutely safe from eavesdroppers?'
"'Entirely.'
"'Then the matter stands thus. You are probably aware that fuller's-earth is a valuable product, and that it is
only found in one or two places in England?'
"'I have heard so.'
"'Some little time ago I bought a small place--a very small place--within ten miles of Reading. I was fortunateThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 122
enough to discover that there was a deposit of fuller's-earth in one of my fields. On examining it, however, I
found that this deposit was a comparatively small one, and that it formed a link between two very much larger
ones upon the right and left--both of them, however, in the grounds of my neighbours. These good people
were absolutely ignorant that their land contained that which was quite as valuable as a gold-mine. Naturally,
it was to my interest to buy their land before they discovered its true value, but unfortunately I had no capital
by which I could do this. I took a few of my friends into the secret, however, and they suggested that we
should quietly and secretly work our own little deposit and that in this way we should earn the money which
would enable us to buy the neighbouring fields. This we have now been doing for some time, and in order to
help us in our operations we erected a hydraulic press. This press, as I have already explained, has got out of
order, and we wish your advice upon the subject. We guard our secret very jealously, however, and if it once
became known that we had hydraulic engineers coming to our little house, it would soon rouse inquiry, and
then, if the facts came out, it would be good-bye to any chance of getting these fields and carrying out our
plans. That is why I have made you promise me that you will not tell a human being that you are going to
Eyford to-night. I hope that I make it all plain?'
"'I quite follow you,' said I. 'The only point which I could not quite understand was what use you could make
of a hydraulic press in excavating fuller's-earth, which, as I understand, is dug out like gravel from a pit.'
"'Ah!' said he carelessly, 'we have our own process. We compress the earth into bricks, so as to remove them
without revealing what they are. But that is a mere detail. I have taken you fully into my confidence now, Mr.
Hatherley, and I have shown you how I trust you.' He rose as he spoke. 'I shall expect you, then, at Eyford at
11:15.'
"'I shall certainly be there.'
"'And not a word to a soul.' He looked at me with a last long, questioning gaze, and then, pressing my hand in
a cold, dank grasp, he hurried from the room.
"Well, when I came to think it all over in cool blood I was very much astonished, as you may both think, at
this sudden commission which had been intrusted to me. On the one hand, of course, I was glad, for the fee
was at least tenfold what I should have asked had I set a price upon my own services, and it was possible that
this order might lead to other ones. On the other hand, the face and manner of my patron had made an
unpleasant impression upon me, and I could not think that his explanation of the fuller's-earth was sufficient
to explain the necessity for my coming at midnight, and his extreme anxiety lest I should tell anyone of my
errand. However, I threw all fears to the winds, ate a hearty supper, drove to Paddington, and started off,
having obeyed to the letter the injunction as to holding my tongue.
"At Reading I had to change not only my carriage but my station. However, I was in time for the last train to
Eyford, and I reached the little dim-lit station after eleven o'clock. I was the only passenger who got out there,
and there was no one upon the platform save a single sleepy porter with a lantern. As I passed out through the
wicket gate, however, I found my acquaintance of the morning waiting in the shadow upon the other side.
Without a word he grasped my arm and hurried me into a carriage, the door of which was standing open. He
drew up the windows on either side, tapped on the wood-work, and away we went as fast as the horse could
go."
"One horse?" interjected Holmes.
"Yes, only one."
"Did you observe the colour?"
"Yes, I saw it by the side-lights when I was stepping into the carriage. It was a chestnut."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 123
"Tired-looking or fresh?"
"Oh, fresh and glossy."
"Thank you. I am sorry to have interrupted you. Pray continue your most interesting statement."
"Away we went then, and we drove for at least an hour. Colonel Lysander Stark had said that it was only
seven miles, but I should think, from the rate that we seemed to go, and from the time that we took, that it
must have been nearer twelve. He sat at my side in silence all the time, and I was aware, more than once when
I glanced in his direction, that he was looking at me with great intensity. The country roads seem to be not
very good in that part of the world, for we lurched and jolted terribly. I tried to look out of the windows to see
something of where we were, but they were made of frosted glass, and I could make out nothing save the
occasional bright blur of a passing light. Now and then I hazarded some remark to break the monotony of the
journey, but the colonel answered only in monosyllables, and the conversation soon flagged. At last, however,
the bumping of the road was exchanged for the crisp smoothness of a gravel-drive, and the carriage came to a
stand. Colonel Lysander Stark sprang out, and, as I followed after him, pulled me swiftly into a porch which
gaped in front of us. We stepped, as it were, right out of the carriage and into the hall, so that I failed to catch
the most fleeting glance of the front of the house. The instant that I had crossed the threshold the door
slammed heavily behind us, and I heard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage drove away.
"It was pitch dark inside the house, and the colonel fumbled about looking for matches and muttering under
his breath. Suddenly a door opened at the other end of the passage, and a long, golden bar of light shot out in
our direction. It grew broader, and a woman appeared with a lamp in her hand, which she held above her head,
pushing her face forward and peering at us. I could see that she was pretty, and from the gloss with which the
light shone upon her dark dress I knew that it was a rich material. She spoke a few words in a foreign tongue
in a tone as though asking a question, and when my companion answered in a gruff monosyllable she gave
such a start that the lamp nearly fell from her hand. Colonel Stark went up to her, whispered something in her
ear, and then, pushing her back into the room from whence she had come, he walked towards me again with
the lamp in his hand.
"'Perhaps you will have the kindness to wait in this room for a few minutes,' said he, throwing open another
door. It was a quiet, little, plainly furnished room, with a round table in the centre, on which several German
books were scattered. Colonel Stark laid down the lamp on the top of a harmonium beside the door. 'I shall
not keep you waiting an instant,' said he, and vanished into the darkness.
"I glanced at the books upon the table, and in spite of my ignorance of German I could see that two of them
were treatises on science, the others being volumes of poetry. Then I walked across to the window, hoping
that I might catch some glimpse of the country-side, but an oak shutter, heavily barred, was folded across it. It
was a wonderfully silent house. There was an old clock ticking loudly somewhere in the passage, but
otherwise everything was deadly still. A vague feeling of uneasiness began to steal over me. Who were these
German people, and what were they doing living in this strange, out-of-the-way place? And where was the
place? I was ten miles or so from Eyford, that was all I knew, but whether north, south, east, or west I had no
idea. For that matter, Reading, and possibly other large towns, were within that radius, so the place might not
be so secluded, after all. Yet it was quite certain, from the absolute stillness, that we were in the country. I
paced up and down the room, humming a tune under my breath to keep up my spirits and feeling that I was
thoroughly earning my fifty-guinea fee.
"Suddenly, without any preliminary sound in the midst of the utter stillness, the door of my room swung
slowly open. The woman was standing in the aperture, the darkness of the hall behind her, the yellow light
from my lamp beating upon her eager and beautiful face. I could see at a glance that she was sick with fear,
and the sight sent a chill to my own heart. She held up one shaking finger to warn me to be silent, and she shot
a few whispered words of broken English at me, her eyes glancing back, like those of a frightened horse, intoThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 124
the gloom behind her.
"'I would go,' said she, trying hard, as it seemed to me, to speak calmly; 'I would go. I should not stay here.
There is no good for you to do.'
"'But, madam,' said I, 'I have not yet done what I came for. I cannot possibly leave until I have seen the
machine.'
"'It is not worth your while to wait,' she went on. 'You can pass through the door; no one hinders.' And then,
seeing that I smiled and shook my head, she suddenly threw aside her constraint and made a step forward,
with her hands wrung together. 'For the love of Heaven!' she whispered, 'get away from here before it is too
late!'
"But I am somewhat headstrong by nature, and the more ready to engage in an affair when there is some
obstacle in the way. I thought of my fifty-guinea fee, of my wearisome journey, and of the unpleasant night
which seemed to be before me. Was it all to go for nothing? Why should I slink away without having carried
out my commission, and without the payment which was my due? This woman might, for all I knew, be a
monomaniac. With a stout bearing, therefore, though her manner had shaken me more than I cared to confess,
I still shook my head and declared my intention of remaining where I was. She was about to renew her
entreaties when a door slammed overhead, and the sound of several footsteps was heard upon the stairs. She
listened for an instant, threw up her hands with a despairing gesture, and vanished as suddenly and as
noiselessly as she had come.
"The newcomers were Colonel Lysander Stark and a short thick man with a chinchilla beard growing out of
the creases of his double chin, who was introduced to me as Mr. Ferguson.
"'This is my secretary and manager,' said the colonel. 'By the way, I was under the impression that I left this
door shut just now. I fear that you have felt the draught.'
"'On the contrary,' said I, 'I opened the door myself because I felt the room to be a little close.'
"He shot one of his suspicious looks at me. 'Perhaps we had better proceed to business, then,' said he. 'Mr.
Ferguson and I will take you up to see the machine.'
"'I had better put my hat on, I suppose.'
"'Oh, no, it is in the house.'
"'What, you dig fuller's-earth in the house?'
"'No, no. This is only where we compress it. But never mind that. All we wish you to do is to examine the
machine and to let us know what is wrong with it.'
"We went upstairs together, the colonel first with the lamp, the fat manager and I behind him. It was a
labyrinth of an old house, with corridors, passages, narrow winding staircases, and little low doors, the
thresholds of which were hollowed out by the generations who had crossed them. There were no carpets and
no signs of any furniture above the ground floor, while the plaster was peeling off the walls, and the damp was
breaking through in green, unhealthy blotches. I tried to put on as unconcerned an air as possible, but I had not
forgotten the warnings of the lady, even though I disregarded them, and I kept a keen eye upon my two
companions. Ferguson appeared to be a morose and silent man, but I could see from the little that he said that
he was at least a fellow-countryman.The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 125
"Colonel Lysander Stark stopped at last before a low door, which he unlocked. Within was a small, square
room, in which the three of us could hardly get at one time. Ferguson remained outside, and the colonel
ushered me in.
"'We are now,' said he, 'actually within the hydraulic press, and it would be a particularly unpleasant thing for
us if anyone were to turn it on. The ceiling of this small chamber is really the end of the descending piston,
and it comes down with the force of many tons upon this metal floor. There are small lateral columns of water
outside which receive the force, and which transmit and multiply it in the manner which is familiar to you.
The machine goes readily enough, but there is some stiffness in the working of it, and it has lost a little of its
force. Perhaps you will have the goodness to look it over and to show us how we can set it right.'
"I took the lamp from him, and I examined the machine very thoroughly. It was indeed a gigantic one, and
capable of exercising enormous pressure. When I passed outside, however, and pressed down the levers which
controlled it, I knew at once by the whishing sound that there was a slight leakage, which allowed a
regurgitation of water through one of the side cylinders. An examination showed that one of the india-rubber
bands which was round the head of a driving-rod had shrunk so as not quite to fill the socket along which it
worked. This was clearly the cause of the loss of power, and I pointed it out to my companions, who followed
my remarks very carefully and asked several practical questions as to how they should proceed to set it right.
When I had made it clear to them, I returned to the main chamber of the machine and took a good look at it to
satisfy my own curiosity. It was obvious at a glance that the story of the fuller's-earth was the merest
fabrication, for it would be absurd to suppose that so powerful an engine could be designed for so inadequate
a purpose. The walls were of wood, but the floor consisted of a large iron trough, and when I came to examine
it I could see a crust of metallic deposit all over it. I had stooped and was scraping at this to see exactly what it
was when I heard a muttered exclamation in German and saw the cadaverous face of the colonel looking
down at me.
"'What are you doing there?' he asked.
"I felt angry at having been tricked by so elaborate a story as that which he had told me. 'I was admiring your
fuller's-earth,' said I; 'I think that I should be better able to advise you as to your machine if I knew what the
exact purpose was for which it was used.'
"The instant that I uttered the words I regretted the rashness of my speech. His face set hard, and a baleful
light sprang up in his grey eyes.
"'Very well,' said he, 'you shall know all about the machine.' He took a step backward, slammed the little door,
and turned the key in the lock. I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle, but it was quite secure, and did not
give in the least to my kicks and shoves. 'Hullo!' I yelled. 'Hullo! Colonel! Let me out!'
"And then suddenly in the silence I heard a sound which sent my heart into my mouth. It was the clank of the
levers and the swish of the leaking cylinder. He had set the engine at work. The lamp still stood upon the floor
where I had placed it when examining the trough. By its light I saw that the black ceiling was coming down
upon me, slowly, jerkily, but, as none knew better than myself, with a force which must within a minute grind
me to a shapeless pulp. I threw myself, screaming, against the door, and dragged with my nails at the lock. I
implored the colonel to let me out, but the remorseless clanking of the levers drowned my cries. The ceiling
was only a foot or two above my head, and with my hand upraised I could feel its hard, rough surface. Then it
flashed through my mind that the pain of my death would depend very much upon the position in which I met
it. If I lay on my face the weight would come upon my spine, and I shuddered to think of that dreadful snap.
Easier the other way, perhaps; and yet, had I the nerve to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow
wavering down upon me? Already I was unable to stand erect, when my eye caught something which brought
a gush of hope back to my heart.The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 126
"I have said that though the floor and ceiling were of iron, the walls were of wood. As I gave a last hurried
glance around, I saw a thin line of yellow light between two of the boards, which broadened and broadened as
a small panel was pushed backward. For an instant I could hardly believe that here was indeed a door which
led away from death. The next instant I threw myself through, and lay half-fainting upon the other side. The
panel had closed again behind me, but the crash of the lamp, and a few moments afterwards the clang of the
two slabs of metal, told me how narrow had been my escape.
"I was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist, and I found myself lying upon the stone floor of a
narrow corridor, while a woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand, while she held a candle in
her right. It was the same good friend whose warning I had so foolishly rejected.
"'Come! come!' she cried breathlessly. 'They will be here in a moment. They will see that you are not there.
Oh, do not waste the so-precious time, but come!'
"This time, at least, I did not scorn her advice. I staggered to my feet and ran with her along the corridor and
down a winding stair. The latter led to another broad passage, and just as we reached it we heard the sound of
running feet and the shouting of two voices, one answering the other from the floor on which we were and
from the one beneath. My guide stopped and looked about her like one who is at her wit's end. Then she threw
open a door which led into a bedroom, through the window of which the moon was shining brightly.
"'It is your only chance,' said she. 'It is high, but it may be that you can jump it.'
"As she spoke a light sprang into view at the further end of the passage, and I saw the lean figure of Colonel
Lysander Stark rushing forward with a lantern in one hand and a weapon like a butcher's cleaver in the other. I
rushed across the bedroom, flung open the window, and looked out. How quiet and sweet and wholesome the
garden looked in the moonlight, and it could not be more than thirty feet down. I clambered out upon the sill,
but I hesitated to jump until I should have heard what passed between my saviour and the ruffian who pursued
me. If she were ill-used, then at any risks I was determined to go back to her assistance. The thought had
hardly flashed through my mind before he was at the door, pushing his way past her; but she threw her arms
round him and tried to hold him back.
"'Fritz! Fritz!' she cried in English, 'remember your promise after the last time. You said it should not be
again. He will be silent! Oh, he will be silent!'
"'You are mad, Elise!' he shouted, struggling to break away from her. 'You will be the ruin of us. He has seen
too much. Let me pass, I say!' He dashed her to one side, and, rushing to the window, cut at me with his heavy
weapon. I had let myself go, and was hanging by the hands to the sill, when his blow fell. I was conscious of a
dull pain, my grip loosened, and I fell into the garden below.
"I was shaken but not hurt by the fall; so I picked myself up and rushed off among the bushes as hard as I
could run, for I understood that I was far from being out of danger yet. Suddenly, however, as I ran, a deadly
dizziness and sickness came over me. I glanced down at my hand, which was throbbing painfully, and then,
for the first time, saw that my thumb had been cut off and that the blood was pouring from my wound. I
endeavoured to tie my handkerchief round it, but there came a sudden buzzing in my ears, and next moment I
fell in a dead faint among the rose-bushes.
"How long I remained unconscious I cannot tell. It must have been a very long time, for the moon had sunk,
and a bright morning was breaking when I came to myself. My clothes were all sodden with dew, and my
coat-sleeve was drenched with blood from my wounded thumb. The smarting of it recalled in an instant all the
particulars of my night's adventure, and I sprang to my feet with the feeling that I might hardly yet be safe
from my pursuers. But to my astonishment, when I came to look round me, neither house nor garden were to
be seen. I had been lying in an angle of the hedge close by the highroad, and just a little lower down was aThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 127
long building, which proved, upon my approaching it, to be the very station at which I had arrived upon the
previous night. Were it not for the ugly wound upon my hand, all that had passed during those dreadful hours
might have been an evil dream.
"Half dazed, I went into the station and asked about the morning train. There would be one to Reading in less
than an hour. The same porter was on duty, I found, as had been there when I arrived. I inquired of him
whether he had ever heard of Colonel Lysander Stark. The name was strange to him. Had he observed a
carriage the night before waiting for me? No, he had not. Was there a police-station anywhere near? There
was one about three miles off.
"It was too far for me to go, weak and ill as I was. I determined to wait until I got back to town before telling
my story to the police. It was a little past six when I arrived, so I went first to have my wound dressed, and
then the doctor was kind enough to bring me along here. I put the case into your hands and shall do exactly
what you advise."
We both sat in silence for some little time after listening to this extraordinary narrative. Then Sherlock
Holmes pulled down from the shelf one of the ponderous commonplace books in which he placed his cuttings.
"Here is an advertisement which will interest you," said he. "It appeared in all the papers about a year ago.
Listen to this: 'Lost, on the 9th inst., Mr. Jeremiah Hayling, aged twenty-six, a hydraulic engineer. Left his
lodgings at ten o'clock at night, and has not been heard of since. Was dressed in,' etc., etc. Ha! That represents
the last time that the colonel needed to have his machine overhauled, I fancy."
"Good heavens!" cried my patient. "Then that explains what the girl said."
"Undoubtedly. It is quite clear that the colonel was a cool and desperate man, who was absolutely determined
that nothing should stand in the way of his little game, like those out-and-out pirates who will leave no
survivor from a captured ship. Well, every moment now is precious, so if you feel equal to it we shall go
down to Scotland Yard at once as a preliminary to starting for Eyford."
Some three hours or so afterwards we were all in the train together, bound from Reading to the little Berkshire
village. There were Sherlock Holmes, the hydraulic engineer, Inspector Bradstreet, of Scotland Yard, a
plain-clothes man, and myself. Bradstreet had spread an ordnance map of the county out upon the seat and
was busy with his compasses drawing a circle with Eyford for its centre.
"There you are," said he. "That circle is drawn at a radius of ten miles from the village. The place we want
must be somewhere near that line. You said ten miles, I think, sir."
"It was an hour's good drive."
"And you think that they brought you back all that way when you were unconscious?"
"They must have done so. I have a confused memory, too, of having been lifted and conveyed somewhere."
"What I cannot understand," said I, "is why they should have spared you when they found you lying fainting
in the garden. Perhaps the villain was softened by the woman's entreaties."
"I hardly think that likely. I never saw a more inexorable face in my life."
"Oh, we shall soon clear up all that," said Bradstreet. "Well, I have drawn my circle, and I only wish I knew at
what point upon it the folk that we are in search of are to be found."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 128
"I think I could lay my finger on it," said Holmes quietly.
"Really, now!" cried the inspector, "you have formed your opinion! Come, now, we shall see who agrees with
you. I say it is south, for the country is more deserted there."
"And I say east," said my patient.
"I am for west," remarked the plain-clothes man. "There are several quiet little villages up there."
"And I am for north," said I, "because there are no hills there, and our friend says that he did not notice the
carriage go up any."
"Come," cried the inspector, laughing; "it's a very pretty diversity of opinion. We have boxed the compass
among us. Who do you give your casting vote to?"
"You are all wrong."
"But we can't all be."
"Oh, yes, you can. This is my point." He placed his finger in the centre of the circle. "This is where we shall
find them."
"But the twelve-mile drive?" gasped Hatherley.
"Six out and six back. Nothing simpler. You say yourself that the horse was fresh and glossy when you got in.
How could it be that if it had gone twelve miles over heavy roads?"
"Indeed, it is a likely ruse enough," observed Bradstreet thoughtfully. "Of course there can be no doubt as to
the nature of this gang."
"None at all," said Holmes. "They are coiners on a large scale, and have used the machine to form the
amalgam which has taken the place of silver."
"We have known for some time that a clever gang was at work," said the inspector. "They have been turning
out half-crowns by the thousand. We even traced them as far as Reading, but could get no farther, for they had
covered their traces in a way that showed that they were very old hands. But now, thanks to this lucky chance,
I think that we have got them right enough."
But the inspector was mistaken, for those criminals were not destined to fall into the hands of justice. As we
rolled into Eyford Station we saw a gigantic column of smoke which streamed up from behind a small clump
of trees in the neighbourhood and hung like an immense ostrich feather over the landscape.
"A house on fire?" asked Bradstreet as the train steamed off again on its way.
"Yes, sir!" said the station-master.
"When did it break out?"
"I hear that it was during the night, sir, but it has got worse, and the whole place is in a blaze."
"Whose house is it?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 129
"Dr. Becher's."
"Tell me," broke in the engineer, "is Dr. Becher a German, very thin, with a long, sharp nose?"
The station-master laughed heartily. "No, sir, Dr. Becher is an Englishman, and there isn't a man in the parish
who has a better-lined waistcoat. But he has a gentleman staying with him, a patient, as I understand, who is a
foreigner, and he looks as if a little good Berkshire beef would do him no harm."
The station-master had not finished his speech before we were all hastening in the direction of the fire. The
road topped a low hill, and there was a great widespread whitewashed building in front of us, spouting fire at
every chink and window, while in the garden in front three fire-engines were vainly striving to keep the
flames under.
"That's it!" cried Hatherley, in intense excitement. "There is the gravel-drive, and there are the rose-bushes
where I lay. That second window is the one that I jumped from."
"Well, at least," said Holmes, "you have had your revenge upon them. There can be no question that it was
your oil-lamp which, when it was crushed in the press, set fire to the wooden walls, though no doubt they
were too excited in the chase after you to observe it at the time. Now keep your eyes open in this crowd for
your friends of last night, though I very much fear that they are a good hundred miles off by now."
And Holmes' fears came to be realised, for from that day to this no word has ever been heard either of the
beautiful woman, the sinister German, or the morose Englishman. Early that morning a peasant had met a cart
containing several people and some very bulky boxes driving rapidly in the direction of Reading, but there all
traces of the fugitives disappeared, and even Holmes' ingenuity failed ever to discover the least clue as to their
whereabouts.
The firemen had been much perturbed at the strange arrangements which they had found within, and still more
so by discovering a newly severed human thumb upon a window-sill of the second floor. About sunset,
however, their efforts were at last successful, and they subdued the flames, but not before the roof had fallen
in, and the whole place been reduced to such absolute ruin that, save some twisted cylinders and iron piping,
not a trace remained of the machinery which had cost our unfortunate acquaintance so dearly. Large masses of
nickel and of tin were discovered stored in an out-house, but no coins were to be found, which may have
explained the presence of those bulky boxes which have been already referred to.
How our hydraulic engineer had been conveyed from the garden to the spot where he recovered his senses
might have remained forever a mystery were it not for the soft mould, which told us a very plain tale. He had
evidently been carried down by two persons, one of whom had remarkably small feet and the other unusually
large ones. On the whole, it was most probable that the silent Englishman, being less bold or less murderous
than his companion, had assisted the woman to bear the unconscious man out of the way of danger.
"Well," said our engineer ruefully as we took our seats to return once more to London, "it has been a pretty
business for me! I have lost my thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea fee, and what have I gained?"
"Experience," said Holmes, laughing. "Indirectly it may be of value, you know; you have only to put it into
words to gain the reputation of being excellent company for the remainder of your existence."
X. THE ADVENTURE OF THE NOBLE BACHELOR
The Lord St. Simon marriage, and its curious termination, have long ceased to be a subject of interest in those
exalted circles in which the unfortunate bridegroom moves. Fresh scandals have eclipsed it, and their more
piquant details have drawn the gossips away from this four-year-old drama. As I have reason to believe,The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 130
however, that the full facts have never been revealed to the general public, and as my friend Sherlock Holmes
had a considerable share in clearing the matter up, I feel that no memoir of him would be complete without
some little sketch of this remarkable episode.
It was a few weeks before my own marriage, during the days when I was still sharing rooms with Holmes in
Baker Street, that he came home from an afternoon stroll to find a letter on the table waiting for him. I had
remained indoors all day, for the weather had taken a sudden turn to rain, with high autumnal winds, and the
Jezail bullet which I had brought back in one of my limbs as a relic of my Afghan campaign throbbed with
dull persistence. With my body in one easy-chair and my legs upon another, I had surrounded myself with a
cloud of newspapers until at last, saturated with the news of the day, I tossed them all aside and lay listless,
watching the huge crest and monogram upon the envelope upon the table and wondering lazily who my
friend's noble correspondent could be.
"Here is a very fashionable epistle," I remarked as he entered. "Your morning letters, if I remember right,
were from a fish-monger and a tide-waiter."
"Yes, my correspondence has certainly the charm of variety," he answered, smiling, "and the humbler are
usually the more interesting. This looks like one of those unwelcome social summonses which call upon a
man either to be bored or to lie."
He broke the seal and glanced over the contents.
"Oh, come, it may prove to be something of interest, after all."
"Not social, then?"
"No, distinctly professional."
"And from a noble client?"
"One of the highest in England."
"My dear fellow, I congratulate you."
"I assure you, Watson, without affectation, that the status of my client is a matter of less moment to me than
the interest of his case. It is just possible, however, that that also may not be wanting in this new investigation.
You have been reading the papers diligently of late, have you not?"
"It looks like it," said I ruefully, pointing to a huge bundle in the corner. "I have had nothing else to do."
"It is fortunate, for you will perhaps be able to post me up. I read nothing except the criminal news and the
agony column. The latter is always instructive. But if you have followed recent events so closely you must
have read about Lord St. Simon and his wedding?"
"Oh, yes, with the deepest interest."
"That is well. The letter which I hold in my hand is from Lord St. Simon. I will read it to you, and in return
you must turn over these papers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter. This is what he says:
"'MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES:--Lord Backwater tells me that I may place implicit reliance upon
your judgment and discretion. I have determined, therefore, to call upon you and to consult you in reference to
the very painful event which has occurred in connection with my wedding. Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, isThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 131
acting already in the matter, but he assures me that he sees no objection to your co-operation, and that he even
thinks that it might be of some assistance. I will call at four o'clock in the afternoon, and, should you have any
other engagement at that time, I hope that you will postpone it, as this matter is of paramount importance.
Yours faithfully, ST. SIMON.'
"It is dated from Grosvenor Mansions, written with a quill pen, and the noble lord has had the misfortune to
get a smear of ink upon the outer side of his right little finger," remarked Holmes as he folded up the epistle.
"He says four o'clock. It is three now. He will be here in an hour."
"Then I have just time, with your assistance, to get clear upon the subject. Turn over those papers and arrange
the extracts in their order of time, while I take a glance as to who our client is." He picked a red-covered
volume from a line of books of reference beside the mantelpiece. "Here he is," said he, sitting down and
flattening it out upon his knee. "'Lord Robert Walsingham de Vere St. Simon, second son of the Duke of
Balmoral.' Hum! 'Arms: Azure, three caltrops in chief over a fess sable. Born in 1846.' He's forty-one years of
age, which is mature for marriage. Was Under-Secretary for the colonies in a late administration. The Duke,
his father, was at one time Secretary for Foreign Affairs. They inherit Plantagenet blood by direct descent, and
Tudor on the distaff side. Ha! Well, there is nothing very instructive in all this. I think that I must turn to you
Watson, for something more solid."
"I have very little difficulty in finding what I want," said I, "for the facts are quite recent, and the matter struck
me as remarkable. I feared to refer them to you, however, as I knew that you had an inquiry on hand and that
you disliked the intrusion of other matters."
"Oh, you mean the little problem of the Grosvenor Square furniture van. That is quite cleared up now--though,
indeed, it was obvious from the first. Pray give me the results of your newspaper selections."
"Here is the first notice which I can find. It is in the personal column of the Morning Post, and dates, as you
see, some weeks back: 'A marriage has been arranged,' it says, 'and will, if rumour is correct, very shortly take
place, between Lord Robert St. Simon, second son of the Duke of Balmoral, and Miss Hatty Doran, the only
daughter of Aloysius Doran. Esq., of San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.' That is all."
"Terse and to the point," remarked Holmes, stretching his long, thin legs towards the fire.
"There was a paragraph amplifying this in one of the society papers of the same week. Ah, here it is: 'There
will soon be a call for protection in the marriage market, for the present free-trade principle appears to tell
heavily against our home product. One by one the management of the noble houses of Great Britain is passing
into the hands of our fair cousins from across the Atlantic. An important addition has been made during the
last week to the list of the prizes which have been borne away by these charming invaders. Lord St. Simon,
who has shown himself for over twenty years proof against the little god's arrows, has now definitely
announced his approaching marriage with Miss Hatty Doran, the fascinating daughter of a California
millionaire. Miss Doran, whose graceful figure and striking face attracted much attention at the Westbury
House festivities, is an only child, and it is currently reported that her dowry will run to considerably over the
six figures, with expectancies for the future. As it is an open secret that the Duke of Balmoral has been
compelled to sell his pictures within the last few years, and as Lord St. Simon has no property of his own save
the small estate of Birchmoor, it is obvious that the Californian heiress is not the only gainer by an alliance
which will enable her to make the easy and common transition from a Republican lady to a British peeress.'"
"Anything else?" asked Holmes, yawning.
"Oh, yes; plenty. Then there is another note in the Morning Post to say that the marriage would be an
absolutely quiet one, that it would be at St. George's, Hanover Square, that only half a dozen intimate friendsThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 132
would be invited, and that the party would return to the furnished house at Lancaster Gate which has been
taken by Mr. Aloysius Doran. Two days later--that is, on Wednesday last--there is a curt announcement that
the wedding had taken place, and that the honeymoon would be passed at Lord Backwater's place, near
Petersfield. Those are all the notices which appeared before the disappearance of the bride."
"Before the what?" asked Holmes with a start.
"The vanishing of the lady."
"When did she vanish, then?"
"At the wedding breakfast."
"Indeed. This is more interesting than it promised to be; quite dramatic, in fact."
"Yes; it struck me as being a little out of the common."
"They often vanish before the ceremony, and occasionally during the honeymoon; but I cannot call to mind
anything quite so prompt as this. Pray let me have the details."
"I warn you that they are very incomplete."
"Perhaps we may make them less so."
"Such as they are, they are set forth in a single article of a morning paper of yesterday, which I will read to
you. It is headed, 'Singular Occurrence at a Fashionable Wedding':
"'The family of Lord Robert St. Simon has been thrown into the greatest consternation by the strange and
painful episodes which have taken place in connection with his wedding. The ceremony, as shortly announced
in the papers of yesterday, occurred on the previous morning; but it is only now that it has been possible to
confirm the strange rumours which have been so persistently floating about. In spite of the attempts of the
friends to hush the matter up, so much public attention has now been drawn to it that no good purpose can be
served by affecting to disregard what is a common subject for conversation.
"'The ceremony, which was performed at St. George's, Hanover Square, was a very quiet one, no one being
present save the father of the bride, Mr. Aloysius Doran, the Duchess of Balmoral, Lord Backwater, Lord
Eustace and Lady Clara St. Simon (the younger brother and sister of the bridegroom), and Lady Alicia
Whittington. The whole party proceeded afterwards to the house of Mr. Aloysius Doran, at Lancaster Gate,
where breakfast had been prepared. It appears that some little trouble was caused by a woman, whose name
has not been ascertained, who endeavoured to force her way into the house after the bridal party, alleging that
she had some claim upon Lord St. Simon. It was only after a painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected
by the butler and the footman. The bride, who had fortunately entered the house before this unpleasant
interruption, had sat down to breakfast with the rest, when she complained of a sudden indisposition and
retired to her room. Her prolonged absence having caused some comment, her father followed her, but learned
from her maid that she had only come up to her chamber for an instant, caught up an ulster and bonnet, and
hurried down to the passage. One of the footmen declared that he had seen a lady leave the house thus
apparelled, but had refused to credit that it was his mistress, believing her to be with the company. On
ascertaining that his daughter had disappeared, Mr. Aloysius Doran, in conjunction with the bridegroom,
instantly put themselves in communication with the police, and very energetic inquiries are being made,
which will probably result in a speedy clearing up of this very singular business. Up to a late hour last night,
however, nothing had transpired as to the whereabouts of the missing lady. There are rumours of foul play in
the matter, and it is said that the police have caused the arrest of the woman who had caused the originalThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 133
disturbance, in the belief that, from jealousy or some other motive, she may have been concerned in the
strange disappearance of the bride.'"
"And is that all?"
"Only one little item in another of the morning papers, but it is a suggestive one."
"And it is--"
"That Miss Flora Millar, the lady who had caused the disturbance, has actually been arrested. It appears that
she was formerly a danseuse at the Allegro, and that she has known the bridegroom for some years. There are
no further particulars, and the whole case is in your hands now--so far as it has been set forth in the public
press."
"And an exceedingly interesting case it appears to be. I would not have missed it for worlds. But there is a
ring at the bell, Watson, and as the clock makes it a few minutes after four, I have no doubt that this will prove
to be our noble client. Do not dream of going, Watson, for I very much prefer having a witness, if only as a
check to my own memory."
"Lord Robert St. Simon," announced our page-boy, throwing open the door. A gentleman entered, with a
pleasant, cultured face, high-nosed and pale, with something perhaps of petulance about the mouth, and with
the steady, well-opened eye of a man whose pleasant lot it had ever been to command and to be obeyed. His
manner was brisk, and yet his general appearance gave an undue impression of age, for he had a slight
forward stoop and a little bend of the knees as he walked. His hair, too, as he swept off his very
curly-brimmed hat, was grizzled round the edges and thin upon the top. As to his dress, it was careful to the
verge of foppishness, with high collar, black frock-coat, white waistcoat, yellow gloves, patent-leather shoes,
and light-coloured gaiters. He advanced slowly into the room, turning his head from left to right, and
swinging in his right hand the cord which held his golden eyeglasses.
"Good-day, Lord St. Simon," said Holmes, rising and bowing. "Pray take the basket-chair. This is my friend
and colleague, Dr. Watson. Draw up a little to the fire, and we will talk this matter over."
"A most painful matter to me, as you can most readily imagine, Mr. Holmes. I have been cut to the quick. I
understand that you have already managed several delicate cases of this sort, sir, though I presume that they
were hardly from the same class of society."
"No, I am descending."
"I beg pardon."
"My last client of the sort was a king."
"Oh, really! I had no idea. And which king?"
"The King of Scandinavia."
"What! Had he lost his wife?"
"You can understand," said Holmes suavely, "that I extend to the affairs of my other clients the same secrecy
which I promise to you in yours."
"Of course! Very right! very right! I'm sure I beg pardon. As to my own case, I am ready to give you anyThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 134
information which may assist you in forming an opinion."
"Thank you. I have already learned all that is in the public prints, nothing more. I presume that I may take it as
correct-- this article, for example, as to the disappearance of the bride."
Lord St. Simon glanced over it. "Yes, it is correct, as far as it goes."
"But it needs a great deal of supplementing before anyone could offer an opinion. I think that I may arrive at
my facts most directly by questioning you."
"Pray do so."
"When did you first meet Miss Hatty Doran?"
"In San Francisco, a year ago."
"You were travelling in the States?"
"Yes."
"Did you become engaged then?"
"No."
"But you were on a friendly footing?"
"I was amused by her society, and she could see that I was amused."
"Her father is very rich?"
"He is said to be the richest man on the Pacific slope."
"And how did he make his money?"
"In mining. He had nothing a few years ago. Then he struck gold, invested it, and came up by leaps and
bounds."
"Now, what is your own impression as to the young lady's--your wife's character?"
The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the fire. "You see, Mr. Holmes," said he,
"my wife was twenty before her father became a rich man. During that time she ran free in a mining camp and
wandered through woods or mountains, so that her education has come from Nature rather than from the
schoolmaster. She is what we call in England a tomboy, with a strong nature, wild and free, unfettered by any
sort of traditions. She is impetuous--volcanic, I was about to say. She is swift in making up her mind and
fearless in carrying out her resolutions. On the other hand, I would not have given her the name which I have
the honour to bear"--he gave a little stately cough--"had not I thought her to be at bottom a noble woman. I
believe that she is capable of heroic self-sacrifice and that anything dishonourable would be repugnant to her."
"Have you her photograph?"
"I brought this with me." He opened a locket and showed us the full face of a very lovely woman. It was not a
photograph but an ivory miniature, and the artist had brought out the full effect of the lustrous black hair, theThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 135
large dark eyes, and the exquisite mouth. Holmes gazed long and earnestly at it. Then he closed the locket and
handed it back to Lord St. Simon.
"The young lady came to London, then, and you renewed your acquaintance?"
"Yes, her father brought her over for this last London season. I met her several times, became engaged to her,
and have now married her."
"She brought, I understand, a considerable dowry?"
"A fair dowry. Not more than is usual in my family."
"And this, of course, remains to you, since the marriage is a fait accompli?"
"I really have made no inquiries on the subject."
"Very naturally not. Did you see Miss Doran on the day before the wedding?"
"Yes."
"Was she in good spirits?"
"Never better. She kept talking of what we should do in our future lives."
"Indeed! That is very interesting. And on the morning of the wedding?"
"She was as bright as possible--at least until after the ceremony."
"And did you observe any change in her then?"
"Well, to tell the truth, I saw then the first signs that I had ever seen that her temper was just a little sharp. The
incident however, was too trivial to relate and can have no possible bearing upon the case."
"Pray let us have it, for all that."
"Oh, it is childish. She dropped her bouquet as we went towards the vestry. She was passing the front pew at
the time, and it fell over into the pew. There was a moment's delay, but the gentleman in the pew handed it up
to her again, and it did not appear to be the worse for the fall. Yet when I spoke to her of the matter, she
answered me abruptly; and in the carriage, on our way home, she seemed absurdly agitated over this trifling
cause."
"Indeed! You say that there was a gentleman in the pew. Some of the general public were present, then?"
"Oh, yes. It is impossible to exclude them when the church is open."
"This gentleman was not one of your wife's friends?"
"No, no; I call him a gentleman by courtesy, but he was quite a common-looking person. I hardly noticed his
appearance. But really I think that we are wandering rather far from the point."
"Lady St. Simon, then, returned from the wedding in a less cheerful frame of mind than she had gone to it.
What did she do on re-entering her father's house?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 136
"I saw her in conversation with her maid."
"And who is her maid?"
"Alice is her name. She is an American and came from California with her."
"A confidential servant?"
"A little too much so. It seemed to me that her mistress allowed her to take great liberties. Still, of course, in
America they look upon these things in a different way."
"How long did she speak to this Alice?"
"Oh, a few minutes. I had something else to think of."
"You did not overhear what they said?"
"Lady St. Simon said something about 'jumping a claim.' She was accustomed to use slang of the kind. I have
no idea what she meant."
"American slang is very expressive sometimes. And what did your wife do when she finished speaking to her
maid?"
"She walked into the breakfast-room."
"On your arm?"
"No, alone. She was very independent in little matters like that. Then, after we had sat down for ten minutes
or so, she rose hurriedly, muttered some words of apology, and left the room. She never came back."
"But this maid, Alice, as I understand, deposes that she went to her room, covered her bride's dress with a long
ulster, put on a bonnet, and went out."
"Quite so. And she was afterwards seen walking into Hyde Park in company with Flora Millar, a woman who
is now in custody, and who had already made a disturbance at Mr. Doran's house that morning."
"Ah, yes. I should like a few particulars as to this young lady, and your relations to her."
Lord St. Simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows. "We have been on a friendly footing for some
years--I may say on a very friendly footing. She used to be at the Allegro. I have not treated her ungenerously,
and she had no just cause of complaint against me, but you know what women are, Mr. Holmes. Flora was a
dear little thing, but exceedingly hot-headed and devotedly attached to me. She wrote me dreadful letters
when she heard that I was about to be married, and, to tell the truth, the reason why I had the marriage
celebrated so quietly was that I feared lest there might be a scandal in the church. She came to Mr. Doran's
door just after we returned, and she endeavoured to push her way in, uttering very abusive expressions
towards my wife, and even threatening her, but I had foreseen the possibility of something of the sort, and I
had two police fellows there in private clothes, who soon pushed her out again. She was quiet when she saw
that there was no good in making a row."
"Did your wife hear all this?"
"No, thank goodness, she did not."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 137
"And she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards?"
"Yes. That is what Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, looks upon as so serious. It is thought that Flora decoyed
my wife out and laid some terrible trap for her."
"Well, it is a possible supposition."
"You think so, too?"
"I did not say a probable one. But you do not yourself look upon this as likely?"
"I do not think Flora would hurt a fly."
"Still, jealousy is a strange transformer of characters. Pray what is your own theory as to what took place?"
"Well, really, I came to seek a theory, not to propound one. I have given you all the facts. Since you ask me,
however, I may say that it has occurred to me as possible that the excitement of this affair, the consciousness
that she had made so immense a social stride, had the effect of causing some little nervous disturbance in my
wife."
"In short, that she had become suddenly deranged?"
"Well, really, when I consider that she has turned her back--I will not say upon me, but upon so much that
many have aspired to without success--I can hardly explain it in any other fashion."
"Well, certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis," said Holmes, smiling. "And now, Lord St. Simon, I
think that I have nearly all my data. May I ask whether you were seated at the breakfast-table so that you
could see out of the window?"
"We could see the other side of the road and the Park."
"Quite so. Then I do not think that I need to detain you longer. I shall communicate with you."
"Should you be fortunate enough to solve this problem," said our client, rising.
"I have solved it."
"Eh? What was that?"
"I say that I have solved it."
"Where, then, is my wife?"
"That is a detail which I shall speedily supply."
Lord St. Simon shook his head. "I am afraid that it will take wiser heads than yours or mine," he remarked,
and bowing in a stately, old-fashioned manner he departed.
"It is very good of Lord St. Simon to honour my head by putting it on a level with his own," said Sherlock
Holmes, laughing. "I think that I shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all this cross-questioning. I
had formed my conclusions as to the case before our client came into the room."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 138
"My dear Holmes!"
"I have notes of several similar cases, though none, as I remarked before, which were quite as prompt. My
whole examination served to turn my conjecture into a certainty. Circumstantial evidence is occasionally very
convincing, as when you find a trout in the milk, to quote Thoreau's example."
"But I have heard all that you have heard."
"Without, however, the knowledge of pre-existing cases which serves me so well. There was a parallel
instance in Aberdeen some years back, and something on very much the same lines at Munich the year after
the Franco-Prussian War. It is one of these cases--but, hullo, here is Lestrade! Good-afternoon, Lestrade! You
will find an extra tumbler upon the sideboard, and there are cigars in the box."
The official detective was attired in a pea-jacket and cravat, which gave him a decidedly nautical appearance,
and he carried a black canvas bag in his hand. With a short greeting he seated himself and lit the cigar which
had been offered to him.
"What's up, then?" asked Holmes with a twinkle in his eye. "You look dissatisfied."
"And I feel dissatisfied. It is this infernal St. Simon marriage case. I can make neither head nor tail of the
business."
"Really! You surprise me."
"Who ever heard of such a mixed affair? Every clue seems to slip through my fingers. I have been at work
upon it all day."
"And very wet it seems to have made you," said Holmes laying his hand upon the arm of the pea-jacket.
"Yes, I have been dragging the Serpentine."
"In heaven's name, what for?"
"In search of the body of Lady St. Simon."
Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily.
"Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Square fountain?" he asked.
"Why? What do you mean?"
"Because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in the one as in the other."
Lestrade shot an angry glance at my companion. "I suppose you know all about it," he snarled.
"Well, I have only just heard the facts, but my mind is made up."
"Oh, indeed! Then you think that the Serpentine plays no part in the matter?"
"I think it very unlikely."
"Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in it?" He opened his bag as he spoke, andThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 139
tumbled onto the floor a wedding-dress of watered silk, a pair of white satin shoes and a bride's wreath and
veil, all discoloured and soaked in water. "There," said he, putting a new wedding-ring upon the top of the
pile. "There is a little nut for you to crack, Master Holmes."
"Oh, indeed!" said my friend, blowing blue rings into the air. "You dragged them from the Serpentine?"
"No. They were found floating near the margin by a park-keeper. They have been identified as her clothes,
and it seemed to me that if the clothes were there the body would not be far off."
"By the same brilliant reasoning, every man's body is to be found in the neighbourhood of his wardrobe. And
pray what did you hope to arrive at through this?"
"At some evidence implicating Flora Millar in the disappearance."
"I am afraid that you will find it difficult."
"Are you, indeed, now?" cried Lestrade with some bitterness. "I am afraid, Holmes, that you are not very
practical with your deductions and your inferences. You have made two blunders in as many minutes. This
dress does implicate Miss Flora Millar."
"And how?"
"In the dress is a pocket. In the pocket is a card-case. In the card-case is a note. And here is the very note." He
slapped it down upon the table in front of him. "Listen to this: 'You will see me when all is ready. Come at
once. F.H.M.' Now my theory all along has been that Lady St. Simon was decoyed away by Flora Millar, and
that she, with confederates, no doubt, was responsible for her disappearance. Here, signed with her initials, is
the very note which was no doubt quietly slipped into her hand at the door and which lured her within their
reach."
"Very good, Lestrade," said Holmes, laughing. "You really are very fine indeed. Let me see it." He took up
the paper in a listless way, but his attention instantly became riveted, and he gave a little cry of satisfaction.
"This is indeed important," said he.
"Ha! you find it so?"
"Extremely so. I congratulate you warmly."
Lestrade rose in his triumph and bent his head to look. "Why," he shrieked, "you're looking at the wrong
side!"
"On the contrary, this is the right side."
"The right side? You're mad! Here is the note written in pencil over here."
"And over here is what appears to be the fragment of a hotel bill, which interests me deeply."
"There's nothing in it. I looked at it before," said Lestrade. "'Oct. 4th, rooms 8s., breakfast 2s. 6d., cocktail 1s.,
lunch 2s. 6d., glass sherry, 8d.' I see nothing in that."
"Very likely not. It is most important, all the same. As to the note, it is important also, or at least the initials
are, so I congratulate you again."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 140
"I've wasted time enough," said Lestrade, rising. "I believe in hard work and not in sitting by the fire spinning
fine theories. Good-day, Mr. Holmes, and we shall see which gets to the bottom of the matter first." He
gathered up the garments, thrust them into the bag, and made for the door.
"Just one hint to you, Lestrade," drawled Holmes before his rival vanished; "I will tell you the true solution of
the matter. Lady St. Simon is a myth. There is not, and there never has been, any such person."
Lestrade looked sadly at my companion. Then he turned to me, tapped his forehead three times, shook his
head solemnly, and hurried away.
He had hardly shut the door behind him when Holmes rose to put on his overcoat. "There is something in
what the fellow says about outdoor work," he remarked, "so I think, Watson, that I must leave you to your
papers for a little."
It was after five o'clock when Sherlock Holmes left me, but I had no time to be lonely, for within an hour
there arrived a confectioner's man with a very large flat box. This he unpacked with the help of a youth whom
he had brought with him, and presently, to my very great astonishment, a quite epicurean little cold supper
began to be laid out upon our humble lodging-house mahogany. There were a couple of brace of cold
woodcock, a pheasant, a pâté de foie gras pie with a group of ancient and cobwebby bottles. Having laid out
all these luxuries, my two visitors vanished away, like the genii of the Arabian Nights, with no explanation
save that the things had been paid for and were ordered to this address.
Just before nine o'clock Sherlock Holmes stepped briskly into the room. His features were gravely set, but
there was a light in his eye which made me think that he had not been disappointed in his conclusions.
"They have laid the supper, then," he said, rubbing his hands.
"You seem to expect company. They have laid for five."
"Yes, I fancy we may have some company dropping in," said he. "I am surprised that Lord St. Simon has not
already arrived. Ha! I fancy that I hear his step now upon the stairs."
It was indeed our visitor of the afternoon who came bustling in, dangling his glasses more vigorously than
ever, and with a very perturbed expression upon his aristocratic features.
"My messenger reached you, then?" asked Holmes.
"Yes, and I confess that the contents startled me beyond measure. Have you good authority for what you say?"
"The best possible."
Lord St. Simon sank into a chair and passed his hand over his forehead.
"What will the Duke say," he murmured, "when he hears that one of the family has been subjected to such
humiliation?"
"It is the purest accident. I cannot allow that there is any humiliation."
"Ah, you look on these things from another standpoint."
"I fail to see that anyone is to blame. I can hardly see how the lady could have acted otherwise, though her
abrupt method of doing it was undoubtedly to be regretted. Having no mother, she had no one to advise her atThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 141
such a crisis."
"It was a slight, sir, a public slight," said Lord St. Simon, tapping his fingers upon the table.
"You must make allowance for this poor girl, placed in so unprecedented a position."
"I will make no allowance. I am very angry indeed, and I have been shamefully used."
"I think that I heard a ring," said Holmes. "Yes, there are steps on the landing. If I cannot persuade you to take
a lenient view of the matter, Lord St. Simon, I have brought an advocate here who may be more successful."
He opened the door and ushered in a lady and gentleman. "Lord St. Simon," said he "allow me to introduce
you to Mr. and Mrs. Francis Hay Moulton. The lady, I think, you have already met."
At the sight of these newcomers our client had sprung from his seat and stood very erect, with his eyes cast
down and his hand thrust into the breast of his frock-coat, a picture of offended dignity. The lady had taken a
quick step forward and had held out her hand to him, but he still refused to raise his eyes. It was as well for his
resolution, perhaps, for her pleading face was one which it was hard to resist.
"You're angry, Robert," said she. "Well, I guess you have every cause to be."
"Pray make no apology to me," said Lord St. Simon bitterly.
"Oh, yes, I know that I have treated you real bad and that I should have spoken to you before I went; but I was
kind of rattled, and from the time when I saw Frank here again I just didn't know what I was doing or saying. I
only wonder I didn't fall down and do a faint right there before the altar."
"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and me to leave the room while you explain this matter?"
"If I may give an opinion," remarked the strange gentleman, "we've had just a little too much secrecy over this
business already. For my part, I should like all Europe and America to hear the rights of it." He was a small,
wiry, sunburnt man, clean-shaven, with a sharp face and alert manner.
"Then I'll tell our story right away," said the lady. "Frank here and I met in '84, in McQuire's camp, near the
Rockies, where pa was working a claim. We were engaged to each other, Frank and I; but then one day father
struck a rich pocket and made a pile, while poor Frank here had a claim that petered out and came to nothing.
The richer pa grew the poorer was Frank; so at last pa wouldn't hear of our engagement lasting any longer,
and he took me away to 'Frisco. Frank wouldn't throw up his hand, though; so he followed me there, and he
saw me without pa knowing anything about it. It would only have made him mad to know, so we just fixed it
all up for ourselves. Frank said that he would go and make his pile, too, and never come back to claim me
until he had as much as pa. So then I promised to wait for him to the end of time and pledged myself not to
marry anyone else while he lived. 'Why shouldn't we be married right away, then,' said he, 'and then I will feel
sure of you; and I won't claim to be your husband until I come back?' Well, we talked it over, and he had fixed
it all up so nicely, with a clergyman all ready in waiting, that we just did it right there; and then Frank went
off to seek his fortune, and I went back to pa.
"The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana, and then he went prospecting in Arizona, and then I
heard of him from New Mexico. After that came a long newspaper story about how a miners' camp had been
attacked by Apache Indians, and there was my Frank's name among the killed. I fainted dead away, and I was
very sick for months after. Pa thought I had a decline and took me to half the doctors in 'Frisco. Not a word of
news came for a year and more, so that I never doubted that Frank was really dead. Then Lord St. Simon came
to 'Frisco, and we came to London, and a marriage was arranged, and pa was very pleased, but I felt all the
time that no man on this earth would ever take the place in my heart that had been given to my poor Frank.The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 142
"Still, if I had married Lord St. Simon, of course I'd have done my duty by him. We can't command our love,
but we can our actions. I went to the altar with him with the intention to make him just as good a wife as it
was in me to be. But you may imagine what I felt when, just as I came to the altar rails, I glanced back and
saw Frank standing and looking at me out of the first pew. I thought it was his ghost at first; but when I
looked again there he was still, with a kind of question in his eyes, as if to ask me whether I were glad or sorry
to see him. I wonder I didn't drop. I know that everything was turning round, and the words of the clergyman
were just like the buzz of a bee in my ear. I didn't know what to do. Should I stop the service and make a
scene in the church? I glanced at him again, and he seemed to know what I was thinking, for he raised his
finger to his lips to tell me to be still. Then I saw him scribble on a piece of paper, and I knew that he was
writing me a note. As I passed his pew on the way out I dropped my bouquet over to him, and he slipped the
note into my hand when he returned me the flowers. It was only a line asking me to join him when he made
the sign to me to do so. Of course I never doubted for a moment that my first duty was now to him, and I
determined to do just whatever he might direct.
"When I got back I told my maid, who had known him in California, and had always been his friend. I ordered
her to say nothing, but to get a few things packed and my ulster ready. I know I ought to have spoken to Lord
St. Simon, but it was dreadful hard before his mother and all those great people. I just made up my mind to
run away and explain afterwards. I hadn't been at the table ten minutes before I saw Frank out of the window
at the other side of the road. He beckoned to me and then began walking into the Park. I slipped out, put on
my things, and followed him. Some woman came talking something or other about Lord St. Simon to
me--seemed to me from the little I heard as if he had a little secret of his own before marriage also--but I
managed to get away from her and soon overtook Frank. We got into a cab together, and away we drove to
some lodgings he had taken in Gordon Square, and that was my true wedding after all those years of waiting.
Frank had been a prisoner among the Apaches, had escaped, came on to 'Frisco, found that I had given him up
for dead and had gone to England, followed me there, and had come upon me at last on the very morning of
my second wedding."
"I saw it in a paper," explained the American. "It gave the name and the church but not where the lady lived."
"Then we had a talk as to what we should do, and Frank was all for openness, but I was so ashamed of it all
that I felt as if I should like to vanish away and never see any of them again--just sending a line to pa, perhaps,
to show him that I was alive. It was awful to me to think of all those lords and ladies sitting round that
breakfast-table and waiting for me to come back. So Frank took my wedding-clothes and things and made a
bundle of them, so that I should not be traced, and dropped them away somewhere where no one could find
them. It is likely that we should have gone on to Paris to-morrow, only that this good gentleman, Mr. Holmes,
came round to us this evening, though how he found us is more than I can think, and he showed us very
clearly and kindly that I was wrong and that Frank was right, and that we should be putting ourselves in the
wrong if we were so secret. Then he offered to give us a chance of talking to Lord St. Simon alone, and so we
came right away round to his rooms at once. Now, Robert, you have heard it all, and I am very sorry if I have
given you pain, and I hope that you do not think very meanly of me."
Lord St. Simon had by no means relaxed his rigid attitude, but had listened with a frowning brow and a
compressed lip to this long narrative.
"Excuse me," he said, "but it is not my custom to discuss my most intimate personal affairs in this public
manner."
"Then you won't forgive me? You won't shake hands before I go?"
"Oh, certainly, if it would give you any pleasure." He put out his hand and coldly grasped that which she
extended to him.The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 143
"I had hoped," suggested Holmes, "that you would have joined us in a friendly supper."
"I think that there you ask a little too much," responded his Lordship. "I may be forced to acquiesce in these
recent developments, but I can hardly be expected to make merry over them. I think that with your permission
I will now wish you all a very good-night." He included us all in a sweeping bow and stalked out of the room.
"Then I trust that you at least will honour me with your company," said Sherlock Holmes. "It is always a joy
to meet an American, Mr. Moulton, for I am one of those who believe that the folly of a monarch and the
blundering of a minister in far-gone years will not prevent our children from being some day citizens of the
same world-wide country under a flag which shall be a quartering of the Union Jack with the Stars and
Stripes."
"The case has been an interesting one," remarked Holmes when our visitors had left us, "because it serves to
show very clearly how simple the explanation may be of an affair which at first sight seems to be almost
inexplicable. Nothing could be more natural than the sequence of events as narrated by this lady, and nothing
stranger than the result when viewed, for instance, by Mr. Lestrade of Scotland Yard."
"You were not yourself at fault at all, then?"
"From the first, two facts were very obvious to me, the one that the lady had been quite willing to undergo the
wedding ceremony, the other that she had repented of it within a few minutes of returning home. Obviously
something had occurred during the morning, then, to cause her to change her mind. What could that
something be? She could not have spoken to anyone when she was out, for she had been in the company of
the bridegroom. Had she seen someone, then? If she had, it must be someone from America because she had
spent so short a time in this country that she could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an influence
over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to change her plans so completely. You see we have
already arrived, by a process of exclusion, at the idea that she might have seen an American. Then who could
this American be, and why should he possess so much influence over her? It might be a lover; it might be a
husband. Her young womanhood had, I knew, been spent in rough scenes and under strange conditions. So far
I had got before I ever heard Lord St. Simon's narrative. When he told us of a man in a pew, of the change in
the bride's manner, of so transparent a device for obtaining a note as the dropping of a bouquet, of her resort to
her confidential maid, and of her very significant allusion to claim-jumping--which in miners' parlance means
taking possession of that which another person has a prior claim to--the whole situation became absolutely
clear. She had gone off with a man, and the man was either a lover or was a previous husband--the chances
being in favour of the latter."
"And how in the world did you find them?"
"It might have been difficult, but friend Lestrade held information in his hands the value of which he did not
himself know. The initials were, of course, of the highest importance, but more valuable still was it to know
that within a week he had settled his bill at one of the most select London hotels."
"How did you deduce the select?"
"By the select prices. Eight shillings for a bed and eightpence for a glass of sherry pointed to one of the most
expensive hotels. There are not many in London which charge at that rate. In the second one which I visited in
Northumberland Avenue, I learned by an inspection of the book that Francis H. Moulton, an American
gentleman, had left only the day before, and on looking over the entries against him, I came upon the very
items which I had seen in the duplicate bill. His letters were to be forwarded to 226 Gordon Square; so thither
I travelled, and being fortunate enough to find the loving couple at home, I ventured to give them some
paternal advice and to point out to them that it would be better in every way that they should make their
position a little clearer both to the general public and to Lord St. Simon in particular. I invited them to meetThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 144
him here, and, as you see, I made him keep the appointment."
"But with no very good result," I remarked. "His conduct was certainly not very gracious."
"Ah, Watson," said Holmes, smiling, "perhaps you would not be very gracious either, if, after all the trouble
of wooing and wedding, you found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of fortune. I think that we may
judge Lord St. Simon very mercifully and thank our stars that we are never likely to find ourselves in the same
position. Draw your chair up and hand me my violin, for the only problem we have still to solve is how to
while away these bleak autumnal evenings."
XI. THE ADVENTURE OF THE BERYL CORONET
"Holmes," said I as I stood one morning in our bow-window looking down the street, "here is a madman
coming along. It seems rather sad that his relatives should allow him to come out alone."
My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the pockets of his dressing-gown, looking
over my shoulder. It was a bright, crisp February morning, and the snow of the day before still lay deep upon
the ground, shimmering brightly in the wintry sun. Down the centre of Baker Street it had been ploughed into
a brown crumbly band by the traffic, but at either side and on the heaped-up edges of the foot-paths it still lay
as white as when it fell. The grey pavement had been cleaned and scraped, but was still dangerously slippery,
so that there were fewer passengers than usual. Indeed, from the direction of the Metropolitan Station no one
was coming save the single gentleman whose eccentric conduct had drawn my attention.
He was a man of about fifty, tall, portly, and imposing, with a massive, strongly marked face and a
commanding figure. He was dressed in a sombre yet rich style, in black frock-coat, shining hat, neat brown
gaiters, and well-cut pearl-grey trousers. Yet his actions were in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress and
features, for he was running hard, with occasional little springs, such as a weary man gives who is little
accustomed to set any tax upon his legs. As he ran he jerked his hands up and down, waggled his head, and
writhed his face into the most extraordinary contortions.
"What on earth can be the matter with him?" I asked. "He is looking up at the numbers of the houses."
"I believe that he is coming here," said Holmes, rubbing his hands.
"Here?"
"Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally. I think that I recognise the symptoms. Ha! did I
not tell you?" As he spoke, the man, puffing and blowing, rushed at our door and pulled at our bell until the
whole house resounded with the clanging.
A few moments later he was in our room, still puffing, still gesticulating, but with so fixed a look of grief and
despair in his eyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and pity. For a while he could not get his
words out, but swayed his body and plucked at his hair like one who has been driven to the extreme limits of
his reason. Then, suddenly springing to his feet, he beat his head against the wall with such force that we both
rushed upon him and tore him away to the centre of the room. Sherlock Holmes pushed him down into the
easy-chair and, sitting beside him, patted his hand and chatted with him in the easy, soothing tones which he
knew so well how to employ.
"You have come to me to tell your story, have you not?" said he. "You are fatigued with your haste. Pray wait
until you have recovered yourself, and then I shall be most happy to look into any little problem which you
may submit to me."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 145
The man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest, fighting against his emotion. Then he passed his
handkerchief over his brow, set his lips tight, and turned his face towards us.
"No doubt you think me mad?" said he.
"I see that you have had some great trouble," responded Holmes.
"God knows I have!--a trouble which is enough to unseat my reason, so sudden and so terrible is it. Public
disgrace I might have faced, although I am a man whose character has never yet borne a stain. Private
affliction also is the lot of every man; but the two coming together, and in so frightful a form, have been
enough to shake my very soul. Besides, it is not I alone. The very noblest in the land may suffer unless some
way be found out of this horrible affair."
"Pray compose yourself, sir," said Holmes, "and let me have a clear account of who you are and what it is that
has befallen you."
"My name," answered our visitor, "is probably familiar to your ears. I am Alexander Holder, of the banking
firm of Holder & Stevenson, of Threadneedle Street."
The name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the senior partner in the second largest private
banking concern in the City of London. What could have happened, then, to bring one of the foremost citizens
of London to this most pitiable pass? We waited, all curiosity, until with another effort he braced himself to
tell his story.
"I feel that time is of value," said he; "that is why I hastened here when the police inspector suggested that I
should secure your co-operation. I came to Baker Street by the Underground and hurried from there on foot,
for the cabs go slowly through this snow. That is why I was so out of breath, for I am a man who takes very
little exercise. I feel better now, and I will put the facts before you as shortly and yet as clearly as I can.
"It is, of course, well known to you that in a successful banking business as much depends upon our being
able to find remunerative investments for our funds as upon our increasing our connection and the number of
our depositors. One of our most lucrative means of laying out money is in the shape of loans, where the
security is unimpeachable. We have done a good deal in this direction during the last few years, and there are
many noble families to whom we have advanced large sums upon the security of their pictures, libraries, or
plate.
"Yesterday morning I was seated in my office at the bank when a card was brought in to me by one of the
clerks. I started when I saw the name, for it was that of none other than--well, perhaps even to you I had better
say no more than that it was a name which is a household word all over the earth--one of the highest, noblest,
most exalted names in England. I was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted, when he entered, to say so,
but he plunged at once into business with the air of a man who wishes to hurry quickly through a disagreeable
task.
"'Mr. Holder,' said he, 'I have been informed that you are in the habit of advancing money.'
"'The firm does so when the security is good.' I answered.
"'It is absolutely essential to me,' said he, 'that I should have 50,000 pounds at once. I could, of course, borrow
so trifling a sum ten times over from my friends, but I much prefer to make it a matter of business and to carry
out that business myself. In my position you can readily understand that it is unwise to place one's self under
obligations.'The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 146
"'For how long, may I ask, do you want this sum?' I asked.
"'Next Monday I have a large sum due to me, and I shall then most certainly repay what you advance, with
whatever interest you think it right to charge. But it is very essential to me that the money should be paid at
once.'
"'I should be happy to advance it without further parley from my own private purse,' said I, 'were it not that
the strain would be rather more than it could bear. If, on the other hand, I am to do it in the name of the firm,
then in justice to my partner I must insist that, even in your case, every businesslike precaution should be
taken.'
"'I should much prefer to have it so,' said he, raising up a square, black morocco case which he had laid beside
his chair. 'You have doubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?'
"'One of the most precious public possessions of the empire,' said I.
"'Precisely.' He opened the case, and there, imbedded in soft, flesh-coloured velvet, lay the magnificent piece
of jewellery which he had named. 'There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,' said he, 'and the price of the gold
chasing is incalculable. The lowest estimate would put the worth of the coronet at double the sum which I
have asked. I am prepared to leave it with you as my security.'
"I took the precious case into my hands and looked in some perplexity from it to my illustrious client.
"'You doubt its value?' he asked.
"'Not at all. I only doubt--'
"'The propriety of my leaving it. You may set your mind at rest about that. I should not dream of doing so
were it not absolutely certain that I should be able in four days to reclaim it. It is a pure matter of form. Is the
security sufficient?'
"'Ample.'
"'You understand, Mr. Holder, that I am giving you a strong proof of the confidence which I have in you,
founded upon all that I have heard of you. I rely upon you not only to be discreet and to refrain from all gossip
upon the matter but, above all, to preserve this coronet with every possible precaution because I need not say
that a great public scandal would be caused if any harm were to befall it. Any injury to it would be almost as
serious as its complete loss, for there are no beryls in the world to match these, and it would be impossible to
replace them. I leave it with you, however, with every confidence, and I shall call for it in person on Monday
morning.'
"Seeing that my client was anxious to leave, I said no more but, calling for my cashier, I ordered him to pay
over fifty 1000 pound notes. When I was alone once more, however, with the precious case lying upon the
table in front of me, I could not but think with some misgivings of the immense responsibility which it
entailed upon me. There could be no doubt that, as it was a national possession, a horrible scandal would
ensue if any misfortune should occur to it. I already regretted having ever consented to take charge of it.
However, it was too late to alter the matter now, so I locked it up in my private safe and turned once more to
my work.
"When evening came I felt that it would be an imprudence to leave so precious a thing in the office behind
me. Bankers' safes had been forced before now, and why should not mine be? If so, how terrible would be the
position in which I should find myself! I determined, therefore, that for the next few days I would alwaysThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 147
carry the case backward and forward with me, so that it might never be really out of my reach. With this
intention, I called a cab and drove out to my house at Streatham, carrying the jewel with me. I did not breathe
freely until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of my dressing-room.
"And now a word as to my household, Mr. Holmes, for I wish you to thoroughly understand the situation. My
groom and my page sleep out of the house, and may be set aside altogether. I have three maid-servants who
have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability is quite above suspicion. Another, Lucy
Parr, the second waiting-maid, has only been in my service a few months. She came with an excellent
character, however, and has always given me satisfaction. She is a very pretty girl and has attracted admirers
who have occasionally hung about the place. That is the only drawback which we have found to her, but we
believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way.
"So much for the servants. My family itself is so small that it will not take me long to describe it. I am a
widower and have an only son, Arthur. He has been a disappointment to me, Mr. Holmes--a grievous
disappointment. I have no doubt that I am myself to blame. People tell me that I have spoiled him. Very likely
I have. When my dear wife died I felt that he was all I had to love. I could not bear to see the smile fade even
for a moment from his face. I have never denied him a wish. Perhaps it would have been better for both of us
had I been sterner, but I meant it for the best.
"It was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my business, but he was not of a business turn. He
was wild, wayward, and, to speak the truth, I could not trust him in the handling of large sums of money.
When he was young he became a member of an aristocratic club, and there, having charming manners, he was
soon the intimate of a number of men with long purses and expensive habits. He learned to play heavily at
cards and to squander money on the turf, until he had again and again to come to me and implore me to give
him an advance upon his allowance, that he might settle his debts of honour. He tried more than once to break
away from the dangerous company which he was keeping, but each time the influence of his friend, Sir
George Burnwell, was enough to draw him back again.
"And, indeed, I could not wonder that such a man as Sir George Burnwell should gain an influence over him,
for he has frequently brought him to my house, and I have found myself that I could hardly resist the
fascination of his manner. He is older than Arthur, a man of the world to his finger-tips, one who had been
everywhere, seen everything, a brilliant talker, and a man of great personal beauty. Yet when I think of him in
cold blood, far away from the glamour of his presence, I am convinced from his cynical speech and the look
which I have caught in his eyes that he is one who should be deeply distrusted. So I think, and so, too, thinks
my little Mary, who has a woman's quick insight into character.
"And now there is only she to be described. She is my niece; but when my brother died five years ago and left
her alone in the world I adopted her, and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter. She is a sunbeam in
my house--sweet, loving, beautiful, a wonderful manager and housekeeper, yet as tender and quiet and gentle
as a woman could be. She is my right hand. I do not know what I could do without her. In only one matter has
she ever gone against my wishes. Twice my boy has asked her to marry him, for he loves her devotedly, but
each time she has refused him. I think that if anyone could have drawn him into the right path it would have
been she, and that his marriage might have changed his whole life; but now, alas! it is too late--forever too
late!
"Now, Mr. Holmes, you know the people who live under my roof, and I shall continue with my miserable
story.
"When we were taking coffee in the drawing-room that night after dinner, I told Arthur and Mary my
experience, and of the precious treasure which we had under our roof, suppressing only the name of my client.
Lucy Parr, who had brought in the coffee, had, I am sure, left the room; but I cannot swear that the door was
closed. Mary and Arthur were much interested and wished to see the famous coronet, but I thought it betterThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 148
not to disturb it.
"'Where have you put it?' asked Arthur.
"'In my own bureau.'
"'Well, I hope to goodness the house won't be burgled during the night.' said he.
"'It is locked up,' I answered.
"'Oh, any old key will fit that bureau. When I was a youngster I have opened it myself with the key of the
box-room cupboard.'
"He often had a wild way of talking, so that I thought little of what he said. He followed me to my room,
however, that night with a very grave face.
"'Look here, dad,' said he with his eyes cast down, 'can you let me have 200 pounds?'
"'No, I cannot!' I answered sharply. 'I have been far too generous with you in money matters.'
"'You have been very kind,' said he, 'but I must have this money, or else I can never show my face inside the
club again.'
"'And a very good thing, too!' I cried.
"'Yes, but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured man,' said he. 'I could not bear the disgrace. I must
raise the money in some way, and if you will not let me have it, then I must try other means.'
"I was very angry, for this was the third demand during the month. 'You shall not have a farthing from me,' I
cried, on which he bowed and left the room without another word.
"When he was gone I unlocked my bureau, made sure that my treasure was safe, and locked it again. Then I
started to go round the house to see that all was secure--a duty which I usually leave to Mary but which I
thought it well to perform myself that night. As I came down the stairs I saw Mary herself at the side window
of the hall, which she closed and fastened as I approached.
"'Tell me, dad,' said she, looking, I thought, a little disturbed, 'did you give Lucy, the maid, leave to go out
to-night?'
"'Certainly not.'
"'She came in just now by the back door. I have no doubt that she has only been to the side gate to see
someone, but I think that it is hardly safe and should be stopped.'
"'You must speak to her in the morning, or I will if you prefer it. Are you sure that everything is fastened?'
"'Quite sure, dad.'
"'Then, good-night.' I kissed her and went up to my bedroom again, where I was soon asleep.
"I am endeavouring to tell you everything, Mr. Holmes, which may have any bearing upon the case, but I beg
that you will question me upon any point which I do not make clear."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 149
"On the contrary, your statement is singularly lucid."
"I come to a part of my story now in which I should wish to be particularly so. I am not a very heavy sleeper,
and the anxiety in my mind tended, no doubt, to make me even less so than usual. About two in the morning,
then, I was awakened by some sound in the house. It had ceased ere I was wide awake, but it had left an
impression behind it as though a window had gently closed somewhere. I lay listening with all my ears.
Suddenly, to my horror, there was a distinct sound of footsteps moving softly in the next room. I slipped out
of bed, all palpitating with fear, and peeped round the corner of my dressing-room door.
"'Arthur!' I screamed, 'you villain! you thief! How dare you touch that coronet?'
"The gas was half up, as I had left it, and my unhappy boy, dressed only in his shirt and trousers, was standing
beside the light, holding the coronet in his hands. He appeared to be wrenching at it, or bending it with all his
strength. At my cry he dropped it from his grasp and turned as pale as death. I snatched it up and examined it.
One of the gold corners, with three of the beryls in it, was missing.
"'You blackguard!' I shouted, beside myself with rage. 'You have destroyed it! You have dishonoured me
forever! Where are the jewels which you have stolen?'
"'Stolen!' he cried.
"'Yes, thief!' I roared, shaking him by the shoulder.
"'There are none missing. There cannot be any missing,' said he.
"'There are three missing. And you know where they are. Must I call you a liar as well as a thief? Did I not see
you trying to tear off another piece?'
"'You have called me names enough,' said he, 'I will not stand it any longer. I shall not say another word about
this business, since you have chosen to insult me. I will leave your house in the morning and make my own
way in the world.'
"'You shall leave it in the hands of the police!' I cried half-mad with grief and rage. 'I shall have this matter
probed to the bottom.'
"'You shall learn nothing from me,' said he with a passion such as I should not have thought was in his nature.
'If you choose to call the police, let the police find what they can.'
"By this time the whole house was astir, for I had raised my voice in my anger. Mary was the first to rush into
my room, and, at the sight of the coronet and of Arthur's face, she read the whole story and, with a scream, fell
down senseless on the ground. I sent the house-maid for the police and put the investigation into their hands at
once. When the inspector and a constable entered the house, Arthur, who had stood sullenly with his arms
folded, asked me whether it was my intention to charge him with theft. I answered that it had ceased to be a
private matter, but had become a public one, since the ruined coronet was national property. I was determined
that the law should have its way in everything.
"'At least,' said he, 'you will not have me arrested at once. It would be to your advantage as well as mine if I
might leave the house for five minutes.'
"'That you may get away, or perhaps that you may conceal what you have stolen,' said I. And then, realising
the dreadful position in which I was placed, I implored him to remember that not only my honour but that of
one who was far greater than I was at stake; and that he threatened to raise a scandal which would convulseThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 150
the nation. He might avert it all if he would but tell me what he had done with the three missing stones.
"'You may as well face the matter,' said I; 'you have been caught in the act, and no confession could make
your guilt more heinous. If you but make such reparation as is in your power, by telling us where the beryls
are, all shall be forgiven and forgotten.'
"'Keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it,' he answered, turning away from me with a sneer. I saw that
he was too hardened for any words of mine to influence him. There was but one way for it. I called in the
inspector and gave him into custody. A search was made at once not only of his person but of his room and of
every portion of the house where he could possibly have concealed the gems; but no trace of them could be
found, nor would the wretched boy open his mouth for all our persuasions and our threats. This morning he
was removed to a cell, and I, after going through all the police formalities, have hurried round to you to
implore you to use your skill in unravelling the matter. The police have openly confessed that they can at
present make nothing of it. You may go to any expense which you think necessary. I have already offered a
reward of 1000 pounds. My God, what shall I do! I have lost my honour, my gems, and my son in one night.
Oh, what shall I do!"
He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro, droning to himself like a child whose
grief has got beyond words.
Sherlock Holmes sat silent for some few minutes, with his brows knitted and his eyes fixed upon the fire.
"Do you receive much company?" he asked.
"None save my partner with his family and an occasional friend of Arthur's. Sir George Burnwell has been
several times lately. No one else, I think."
"Do you go out much in society?"
"Arthur does. Mary and I stay at home. We neither of us care for it."
"That is unusual in a young girl."
"She is of a quiet nature. Besides, she is not so very young. She is four-and-twenty."
"This matter, from what you say, seems to have been a shock to her also."
"Terrible! She is even more affected than I."
"You have neither of you any doubt as to your son's guilt?"
"How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet in his hands."
"I hardly consider that a conclusive proof. Was the remainder of the coronet at all injured?"
"Yes, it was twisted."
"Do you not think, then, that he might have been trying to straighten it?"
"God bless you! You are doing what you can for him and for me. But it is too heavy a task. What was he
doing there at all? If his purpose were innocent, why did he not say so?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 151
"Precisely. And if it were guilty, why did he not invent a lie? His silence appears to me to cut both ways.
There are several singular points about the case. What did the police think of the noise which awoke you from
your sleep?"
"They considered that it might be caused by Arthur's closing his bedroom door."
"A likely story! As if a man bent on felony would slam his door so as to wake a household. What did they say,
then, of the disappearance of these gems?"
"They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture in the hope of finding them."
"Have they thought of looking outside the house?"
"Yes, they have shown extraordinary energy. The whole garden has already been minutely examined."
"Now, my dear sir," said Holmes. "is it not obvious to you now that this matter really strikes very much
deeper than either you or the police were at first inclined to think? It appeared to you to be a simple case; to
me it seems exceedingly complex. Consider what is involved by your theory. You suppose that your son came
down from his bed, went, at great risk, to your dressing-room, opened your bureau, took out your coronet,
broke off by main force a small portion of it, went off to some other place, concealed three gems out of the
thirty-nine, with such skill that nobody can find them, and then returned with the other thirty-six into the room
in which he exposed himself to the greatest danger of being discovered. I ask you now, is such a theory
tenable?"
"But what other is there?" cried the banker with a gesture of despair. "If his motives were innocent, why does
he not explain them?"
"It is our task to find that out," replied Holmes; "so now, if you please, Mr. Holder, we will set off for
Streatham together, and devote an hour to glancing a little more closely into details."
My friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition, which I was eager enough to do, for my
curiosity and sympathy were deeply stirred by the story to which we had listened. I confess that the guilt of
the banker's son appeared to me to be as obvious as it did to his unhappy father, but still I had such faith in
Holmes' judgment that I felt that there must be some grounds for hope as long as he was dissatisfied with the
accepted explanation. He hardly spoke a word the whole way out to the southern suburb, but sat with his chin
upon his breast and his hat drawn over his eyes, sunk in the deepest thought. Our client appeared to have taken
fresh heart at the little glimpse of hope which had been presented to him, and he even broke into a desultory
chat with me over his business affairs. A short railway journey and a shorter walk brought us to Fairbank, the
modest residence of the great financier.
Fairbank was a good-sized square house of white stone, standing back a little from the road. A double
carriage-sweep, with a snow-clad lawn, stretched down in front to two large iron gates which closed the
entrance. On the right side was a small wooden thicket, which led into a narrow path between two neat hedges
stretching from the road to the kitchen door, and forming the tradesmen's entrance. On the left ran a lane
which led to the stables, and was not itself within the grounds at all, being a public, though little used,
thoroughfare. Holmes left us standing at the door and walked slowly all round the house, across the front,
down the tradesmen's path, and so round by the garden behind into the stable lane. So long was he that Mr.
Holder and I went into the dining-room and waited by the fire until he should return. We were sitting there in
silence when the door opened and a young lady came in. She was rather above the middle height, slim, with
dark hair and eyes, which seemed the darker against the absolute pallor of her skin. I do not think that I have
ever seen such deadly paleness in a woman's face. Her lips, too, were bloodless, but her eyes were flushed
with crying. As she swept silently into the room she impressed me with a greater sense of grief than theThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 152
banker had done in the morning, and it was the more striking in her as she was evidently a woman of strong
character, with immense capacity for self-restraint. Disregarding my presence, she went straight to her uncle
and passed her hand over his head with a sweet womanly caress.
"You have given orders that Arthur should be liberated, have you not, dad?" she asked.
"No, no, my girl, the matter must be probed to the bottom."
"But I am so sure that he is innocent. You know what woman's instincts are. I know that he has done no harm
and that you will be sorry for having acted so harshly."
"Why is he silent, then, if he is innocent?"
"Who knows? Perhaps because he was so angry that you should suspect him."
"How could I help suspecting him, when I actually saw him with the coronet in his hand?"
"Oh, but he had only picked it up to look at it. Oh, do, do take my word for it that he is innocent. Let the
matter drop and say no more. It is so dreadful to think of our dear Arthur in prison!"
"I shall never let it drop until the gems are found--never, Mary! Your affection for Arthur blinds you as to the
awful consequences to me. Far from hushing the thing up, I have brought a gentleman down from London to
inquire more deeply into it."
"This gentleman?" she asked, facing round to me.
"No, his friend. He wished us to leave him alone. He is round in the stable lane now."
"The stable lane?" She raised her dark eyebrows. "What can he hope to find there? Ah! this, I suppose, is he. I
trust, sir, that you will succeed in proving, what I feel sure is the truth, that my cousin Arthur is innocent of
this crime."
"I fully share your opinion, and I trust, with you, that we may prove it," returned Holmes, going back to the
mat to knock the snow from his shoes. "I believe I have the honour of addressing Miss Mary Holder. Might I
ask you a question or two?"
"Pray do, sir, if it may help to clear this horrible affair up."
"You heard nothing yourself last night?"
"Nothing, until my uncle here began to speak loudly. I heard that, and I came down."
"You shut up the windows and doors the night before. Did you fasten all the windows?"
"Yes."
"Were they all fastened this morning?"
"Yes."
"You have a maid who has a sweetheart? I think that you remarked to your uncle last night that she had been
out to see him?"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 153
"Yes, and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room, and who may have heard uncle's remarks about
the coronet."
"I see. You infer that she may have gone out to tell her sweetheart, and that the two may have planned the
robbery."
"But what is the good of all these vague theories," cried the banker impatiently, "when I have told you that I
saw Arthur with the coronet in his hands?"
"Wait a little, Mr. Holder. We must come back to that. About this girl, Miss Holder. You saw her return by the
kitchen door, I presume?"
"Yes; when I went to see if the door was fastened for the night I met her slipping in. I saw the man, too, in the
gloom."
"Do you know him?"
"Oh, yes! he is the green-grocer who brings our vegetables round. His name is Francis Prosper."
"He stood," said Holmes, "to the left of the door--that is to say, farther up the path than is necessary to reach
the door?"
"Yes, he did."
"And he is a man with a wooden leg?"
Something like fear sprang up in the young lady's expressive black eyes. "Why, you are like a magician," said
she. "How do you know that?" She smiled, but there was no answering smile in Holmes' thin, eager face.
"I should be very glad now to go upstairs," said he. "I shall probably wish to go over the outside of the house
again. Perhaps I had better take a look at the lower windows before I go up."
He walked swiftly round from one to the other, pausing only at the large one which looked from the hall onto
the stable lane. This he opened and made a very careful examination of the sill with his powerful magnifying
lens. "Now we shall go upstairs," said he at last.
The banker's dressing-room was a plainly furnished little chamber, with a grey carpet, a large bureau, and a
long mirror. Holmes went to the bureau first and looked hard at the lock.
"Which key was used to open it?" he asked.
"That which my son himself indicated--that of the cupboard of the lumber-room."
"Have you it here?"
"That is it on the dressing-table."
Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau.
"It is a noiseless lock," said he. "It is no wonder that it did not wake you. This case, I presume, contains the
coronet. We must have a look at it." He opened the case, and taking out the diadem he laid it upon the table. It
was a magnificent specimen of the jeweller's art, and the thirty-six stones were the finest that I have ever seen.The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 154
At one side of the coronet was a cracked edge, where a corner holding three gems had been torn away.
"Now, Mr. Holder," said Holmes, "here is the corner which corresponds to that which has been so
unfortunately lost. Might I beg that you will break it off."
The banker recoiled in horror. "I should not dream of trying," said he.
"Then I will." Holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it, but without result. "I feel it give a little," said he;
"but, though I am exceptionally strong in the fingers, it would take me all my time to break it. An ordinary
man could not do it. Now, what do you think would happen if I did break it, Mr. Holder? There would be a
noise like a pistol shot. Do you tell me that all this happened within a few yards of your bed and that you
heard nothing of it?"
"I do not know what to think. It is all dark to me."
"But perhaps it may grow lighter as we go. What do you think, Miss Holder?"
"I confess that I still share my uncle's perplexity."
"Your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him?"
"He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt."
"Thank you. We have certainly been favoured with extraordinary luck during this inquiry, and it will be
entirely our own fault if we do not succeed in clearing the matter up. With your permission, Mr. Holder, I
shall now continue my investigations outside."
He went alone, at his own request, for he explained that any unnecessary footmarks might make his task more
difficult. For an hour or more he was at work, returning at last with his feet heavy with snow and his features
as inscrutable as ever.
"I think that I have seen now all that there is to see, Mr. Holder," said he; "I can serve you best by returning to
my rooms."
"But the gems, Mr. Holmes. Where are they?"
"I cannot tell."
The banker wrung his hands. "I shall never see them again!" he cried. "And my son? You give me hopes?"
"My opinion is in no way altered."
"Then, for God's sake, what was this dark business which was acted in my house last night?"
"If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrow morning between nine and ten I shall be happy
to do what I can to make it clearer. I understand that you give me carte blanche to act for you, provided only
that I get back the gems, and that you place no limit on the sum I may draw."
"I would give my fortune to have them back."
"Very good. I shall look into the matter between this and then. Good-bye; it is just possible that I may have to
come over here again before evening."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 155
It was obvious to me that my companion's mind was now made up about the case, although what his
conclusions were was more than I could even dimly imagine. Several times during our homeward journey I
endeavoured to sound him upon the point, but he always glided away to some other topic, until at last I gave it
over in despair. It was not yet three when we found ourselves in our rooms once more. He hurried to his
chamber and was down again in a few minutes dressed as a common loafer. With his collar turned up, his
shiny, seedy coat, his red cravat, and his worn boots, he was a perfect sample of the class.
"I think that this should do," said he, glancing into the glass above the fireplace. "I only wish that you could
come with me, Watson, but I fear that it won't do. I may be on the trail in this matter, or I may be following a
will-o'-the-wisp, but I shall soon know which it is. I hope that I may be back in a few hours." He cut a slice of
beef from the joint upon the sideboard, sandwiched it between two rounds of bread, and thrusting this rude
meal into his pocket he started off upon his expedition.
I had just finished my tea when he returned, evidently in excellent spirits, swinging an old elastic-sided boot
in his hand. He chucked it down into a corner and helped himself to a cup of tea.
"I only looked in as I passed," said he. "I am going right on."
"Where to?"
"Oh, to the other side of the West End. It may be some time before I get back. Don't wait up for me in case I
should be late."
"How are you getting on?"
"Oh, so so. Nothing to complain of. I have been out to Streatham since I saw you last, but I did not call at the
house. It is a very sweet little problem, and I would not have missed it for a good deal. However, I must not sit
gossiping here, but must get these disreputable clothes off and return to my highly respectable self."
I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction than his words alone would imply. His
eyes twinkled, and there was even a touch of colour upon his sallow cheeks. He hastened upstairs, and a few
minutes later I heard the slam of the hall door, which told me that he was off once more upon his congenial
hunt.
I waited until midnight, but there was no sign of his return, so I retired to my room. It was no uncommon
thing for him to be away for days and nights on end when he was hot upon a scent, so that his lateness caused
me no surprise. I do not know at what hour he came in, but when I came down to breakfast in the morning
there he was with a cup of coffee in one hand and the paper in the other, as fresh and trim as possible.
"You will excuse my beginning without you, Watson," said he, "but you remember that our client has rather
an early appointment this morning."
"Why, it is after nine now," I answered. "I should not be surprised if that were he. I thought I heard a ring."
It was, indeed, our friend the financier. I was shocked by the change which had come over him, for his face
which was naturally of a broad and massive mould, was now pinched and fallen in, while his hair seemed to
me at least a shade whiter. He entered with a weariness and lethargy which was even more painful than his
violence of the morning before, and he dropped heavily into the armchair which I pushed forward for him.
"I do not know what I have done to be so severely tried," said he. "Only two days ago I was a happy and
prosperous man, without a care in the world. Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age. One sorrow
comes close upon the heels of another. My niece, Mary, has deserted me."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 156
"Deserted you?"
"Yes. Her bed this morning had not been slept in, her room was empty, and a note for me lay upon the hall
table. I had said to her last night, in sorrow and not in anger, that if she had married my boy all might have
been well with him. Perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say so. It is to that remark that she refers in this note:
"'MY DEAREST UNCLE:--I feel that I have brought trouble upon you, and that if I had acted differently this
terrible misfortune might never have occurred. I cannot, with this thought in my mind, ever again be happy
under your roof, and I feel that I must leave you forever. Do not worry about my future, for that is provided
for; and, above all, do not search for me, for it will be fruitless labour and an ill-service to me. In life or in
death, I am ever your loving,--MARY.'
"What could she mean by that note, Mr. Holmes? Do you think it points to suicide?"
"No, no, nothing of the kind. It is perhaps the best possible solution. I trust, Mr. Holder, that you are nearing
the end of your troubles."
"Ha! You say so! You have heard something, Mr. Holmes; you have learned something! Where are the
gems?"
"You would not think 1000 pounds apiece an excessive sum for them?"
"I would pay ten."
"That would be unnecessary. Three thousand will cover the matter. And there is a little reward, I fancy. Have
you your check-book? Here is a pen. Better make it out for 4000 pounds."
With a dazed face the banker made out the required check. Holmes walked over to his desk, took out a little
triangular piece of gold with three gems in it, and threw it down upon the table.
With a shriek of joy our client clutched it up.
"You have it!" he gasped. "I am saved! I am saved!"
The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been, and he hugged his recovered gems to his bosom.
"There is one other thing you owe, Mr. Holder," said Sherlock Holmes rather sternly.
"Owe!" He caught up a pen. "Name the sum, and I will pay it."
"No, the debt is not to me. You owe a very humble apology to that noble lad, your son, who has carried
himself in this matter as I should be proud to see my own son do, should I ever chance to have one."
"Then it was not Arthur who took them?"
"I told you yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that it was not."
"You are sure of it! Then let us hurry to him at once to let him know that the truth is known."
"He knows it already. When I had cleared it all up I had an interview with him, and finding that he would not
tell me the story, I told it to him, on which he had to confess that I was right and to add the very few details
which were not yet quite clear to me. Your news of this morning, however, may open his lips."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 157
"For heaven's sake, tell me, then, what is this extraordinary mystery!"
"I will do so, and I will show you the steps by which I reached it. And let me say to you, first, that which it is
hardest for me to say and for you to hear: there has been an understanding between Sir George Burnwell and
your niece Mary. They have now fled together."
"My Mary? Impossible!"
"It is unfortunately more than possible; it is certain. Neither you nor your son knew the true character of this
man when you admitted him into your family circle. He is one of the most dangerous men in England--a
ruined gambler, an absolutely desperate villain, a man without heart or conscience. Your niece knew nothing
of such men. When he breathed his vows to her, as he had done to a hundred before her, she flattered herself
that she alone had touched his heart. The devil knows best what he said, but at least she became his tool and
was in the habit of seeing him nearly every evening."
"I cannot, and I will not, believe it!" cried the banker with an ashen face.
"I will tell you, then, what occurred in your house last night. Your niece, when you had, as she thought, gone
to your room, slipped down and talked to her lover through the window which leads into the stable lane. His
footmarks had pressed right through the snow, so long had he stood there. She told him of the coronet. His
wicked lust for gold kindled at the news, and he bent her to his will. I have no doubt that she loved you, but
there are women in whom the love of a lover extinguishes all other loves, and I think that she must have been
one. She had hardly listened to his instructions when she saw you coming downstairs, on which she closed the
window rapidly and told you about one of the servants' escapade with her wooden-legged lover, which was all
perfectly true.
"Your boy, Arthur, went to bed after his interview with you but he slept badly on account of his uneasiness
about his club debts. In the middle of the night he heard a soft tread pass his door, so he rose and, looking out,
was surprised to see his cousin walking very stealthily along the passage until she disappeared into your
dressing-room. Petrified with astonishment, the lad slipped on some clothes and waited there in the dark to see
what would come of this strange affair. Presently she emerged from the room again, and in the light of the
passage-lamp your son saw that she carried the precious coronet in her hands. She passed down the stairs, and
he, thrilling with horror, ran along and slipped behind the curtain near your door, whence he could see what
passed in the hall beneath. He saw her stealthily open the window, hand out the coronet to someone in the
gloom, and then closing it once more hurry back to her room, passing quite close to where he stood hid behind
the curtain.
"As long as she was on the scene he could not take any action without a horrible exposure of the woman
whom he loved. But the instant that she was gone he realised how crushing a misfortune this would be for
you, and how all-important it was to set it right. He rushed down, just as he was, in his bare feet, opened the
window, sprang out into the snow, and ran down the lane, where he could see a dark figure in the moonlight.
Sir George Burnwell tried to get away, but Arthur caught him, and there was a struggle between them, your
lad tugging at one side of the coronet, and his opponent at the other. In the scuffle, your son struck Sir George
and cut him over the eye. Then something suddenly snapped, and your son, finding that he had the coronet in
his hands, rushed back, closed the window, ascended to your room, and had just observed that the coronet had
been twisted in the struggle and was endeavouring to straighten it when you appeared upon the scene."
"Is it possible?" gasped the banker.
"You then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment when he felt that he had deserved your
warmest thanks. He could not explain the true state of affairs without betraying one who certainly deserved
little enough consideration at his hands. He took the more chivalrous view, however, and preserved herThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 158
secret."
"And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the coronet," cried Mr. Holder. "Oh, my God! what
a blind fool I have been! And his asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes! The dear fellow wanted to
see if the missing piece were at the scene of the struggle. How cruelly I have misjudged him!"
"When I arrived at the house," continued Holmes, "I at once went very carefully round it to observe if there
were any traces in the snow which might help me. I knew that none had fallen since the evening before, and
also that there had been a strong frost to preserve impressions. I passed along the tradesmen's path, but found
it all trampled down and indistinguishable. Just beyond it, however, at the far side of the kitchen door, a
woman had stood and talked with a man, whose round impressions on one side showed that he had a wooden
leg. I could even tell that they had been disturbed, for the woman had run back swiftly to the door, as was
shown by the deep toe and light heel marks, while Wooden-leg had waited a little, and then had gone away. I
thought at the time that this might be the maid and her sweetheart, of whom you had already spoken to me,
and inquiry showed it was so. I passed round the garden without seeing anything more than random tracks,
which I took to be the police; but when I got into the stable lane a very long and complex story was written in
the snow in front of me.
"There was a double line of tracks of a booted man, and a second double line which I saw with delight
belonged to a man with naked feet. I was at once convinced from what you had told me that the latter was
your son. The first had walked both ways, but the other had run swiftly, and as his tread was marked in places
over the depression of the boot, it was obvious that he had passed after the other. I followed them up and
found they led to the hall window, where Boots had worn all the snow away while waiting. Then I walked to
the other end, which was a hundred yards or more down the lane. I saw where Boots had faced round, where
the snow was cut up as though there had been a struggle, and, finally, where a few drops of blood had fallen,
to show me that I was not mistaken. Boots had then run down the lane, and another little smudge of blood
showed that it was he who had been hurt. When he came to the highroad at the other end, I found that the
pavement had been cleared, so there was an end to that clue.
"On entering the house, however, I examined, as you remember, the sill and framework of the hall window
with my lens, and I could at once see that someone had passed out. I could distinguish the outline of an instep
where the wet foot had been placed in coming in. I was then beginning to be able to form an opinion as to
what had occurred. A man had waited outside the window; someone had brought the gems; the deed had been
overseen by your son; he had pursued the thief; had struggled with him; they had each tugged at the coronet,
their united strength causing injuries which neither alone could have effected. He had returned with the prize,
but had left a fragment in the grasp of his opponent. So far I was clear. The question now was, who was the
man and who was it brought him the coronet?
"It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible, whatever remains, however
improbable, must be the truth. Now, I knew that it was not you who had brought it down, so there only
remained your niece and the maids. But if it were the maids, why should your son allow himself to be accused
in their place? There could be no possible reason. As he loved his cousin, however, there was an excellent
explanation why he should retain her secret--the more so as the secret was a disgraceful one. When I
remembered that you had seen her at that window, and how she had fainted on seeing the coronet again, my
conjecture became a certainty.
"And who could it be who was her confederate? A lover evidently, for who else could outweigh the love and
gratitude which she must feel to you? I knew that you went out little, and that your circle of friends was a very
limited one. But among them was Sir George Burnwell. I had heard of him before as being a man of evil
reputation among women. It must have been he who wore those boots and retained the missing gems. Even
though he knew that Arthur had discovered him, he might still flatter himself that he was safe, for the lad
could not say a word without compromising his own family.The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 159
"Well, your own good sense will suggest what measures I took next. I went in the shape of a loafer to Sir
George's house, managed to pick up an acquaintance with his valet, learned that his master had cut his head
the night before, and, finally, at the expense of six shillings, made all sure by buying a pair of his cast-off
shoes. With these I journeyed down to Streatham and saw that they exactly fitted the tracks."
"I saw an ill-dressed vagabond in the lane yesterday evening," said Mr. Holder.
"Precisely. It was I. I found that I had my man, so I came home and changed my clothes. It was a delicate part
which I had to play then, for I saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avert scandal, and I knew that so
astute a villain would see that our hands were tied in the matter. I went and saw him. At first, of course, he
denied everything. But when I gave him every particular that had occurred, he tried to bluster and took down a
life-preserver from the wall. I knew my man, however, and I clapped a pistol to his head before he could
strike. Then he became a little more reasonable. I told him that we would give him a price for the stones he
held--1000 pounds apiece. That brought out the first signs of grief that he had shown. 'Why, dash it all!' said
he, 'I've let them go at six hundred for the three!' I soon managed to get the address of the receiver who had
them, on promising him that there would be no prosecution. Off I set to him, and after much chaffering I got
our stones at 1000 pounds apiece. Then I looked in upon your son, told him that all was right, and eventually
got to my bed about two o'clock, after what I may call a really hard day's work."
"A day which has saved England from a great public scandal," said the banker, rising. "Sir, I cannot find
words to thank you, but you shall not find me ungrateful for what you have done. Your skill has indeed
exceeded all that I have heard of it. And now I must fly to my dear boy to apologise to him for the wrong
which I have done him. As to what you tell me of poor Mary, it goes to my very heart. Not even your skill can
inform me where she is now."
"I think that we may safely say," returned Holmes, "that she is wherever Sir George Burnwell is. It is equally
certain, too, that whatever her sins are, they will soon receive a more than sufficient punishment."
XII. THE ADVENTURE OF THE COPPER BEECHES
"To the man who loves art for its own sake," remarked Sherlock Holmes, tossing aside the advertisement
sheet of the Daily Telegraph, "it is frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the keenest
pleasure is to be derived. It is pleasant to me to observe, Watson, that you have so far grasped this truth that in
these little records of our cases which you have been good enough to draw up, and, I am bound to say,
occasionally to embellish, you have given prominence not so much to the many causes célèbres and
sensational trials in which I have figured but rather to those incidents which may have been trivial in
themselves, but which have given room for those faculties of deduction and of logical synthesis which I have
made my special province."
"And yet," said I, smiling, "I cannot quite hold myself absolved from the charge of sensationalism which has
been urged against my records."
"You have erred, perhaps," he observed, taking up a glowing cinder with the tongs and lighting with it the
long cherry-wood pipe which was wont to replace his clay when he was in a disputatious rather than a
meditative mood--"you have erred perhaps in attempting to put colour and life into each of your statements
instead of confining yourself to the task of placing upon record that severe reasoning from cause to effect
which is really the only notable feature about the thing."
"It seems to me that I have done you full justice in the matter," I remarked with some coldness, for I was
repelled by the egotism which I had more than once observed to be a strong factor in my friend's singular
character.The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 160
"No, it is not selfishness or conceit," said he, answering, as was his wont, my thoughts rather than my words.
"If I claim full justice for my art, it is because it is an impersonal thing--a thing beyond myself. Crime is
common. Logic is rare. Therefore it is upon the logic rather than upon the crime that you should dwell. You
have degraded what should have been a course of lectures into a series of tales."
It was a cold morning of the early spring, and we sat after breakfast on either side of a cheery fire in the old
room at Baker Street. A thick fog rolled down between the lines of dun-coloured houses, and the opposing
windows loomed like dark, shapeless blurs through the heavy yellow wreaths. Our gas was lit and shone on
the white cloth and glimmer of china and metal, for the table had not been cleared yet. Sherlock Holmes had
been silent all the morning, dipping continuously into the advertisement columns of a succession of papers
until at last, having apparently given up his search, he had emerged in no very sweet temper to lecture me
upon my literary shortcomings.
"At the same time," he remarked after a pause, during which he had sat puffing at his long pipe and gazing
down into the fire, "you can hardly be open to a charge of sensationalism, for out of these cases which you
have been so kind as to interest yourself in, a fair proportion do not treat of crime, in its legal sense, at all. The
small matter in which I endeavoured to help the King of Bohemia, the singular experience of Miss Mary
Sutherland, the problem connected with the man with the twisted lip, and the incident of the noble bachelor,
were all matters which are outside the pale of the law. But in avoiding the sensational, I fear that you may
have bordered on the trivial."
"The end may have been so," I answered, "but the methods I hold to have been novel and of interest."
"Pshaw, my dear fellow, what do the public, the great unobservant public, who could hardly tell a weaver by
his tooth or a compositor by his left thumb, care about the finer shades of analysis and deduction! But, indeed,
if you are trivial. I cannot blame you, for the days of the great cases are past. Man, or at least criminal man,
has lost all enterprise and originality. As to my own little practice, it seems to be degenerating into an agency
for recovering lost lead pencils and giving advice to young ladies from boarding-schools. I think that I have
touched bottom at last, however. This note I had this morning marks my zero-point, I fancy. Read it!" He
tossed a crumpled letter across to me.
It was dated from Montague Place upon the preceding evening, and ran thus:
"DEAR MR. HOLMES:--I am very anxious to consult you as to whether I should or should not accept a
situation which has been offered to me as governess. I shall call at half-past ten to-morrow if I do not
inconvenience you. Yours faithfully, "VIOLET HUNTER."
"Do you know the young lady?" I asked.
"Not I."
"It is half-past ten now."
"Yes, and I have no doubt that is her ring."
"It may turn out to be of more interest than you think. You remember that the affair of the blue carbuncle,
which appeared to be a mere whim at first, developed into a serious investigation. It may be so in this case,
also."
"Well, let us hope so. But our doubts will very soon be solved, for here, unless I am much mistaken, is the
person in question."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 161
As he spoke the door opened and a young lady entered the room. She was plainly but neatly dressed, with a
bright, quick face, freckled like a plover's egg, and with the brisk manner of a woman who has had her own
way to make in the world.
"You will excuse my troubling you, I am sure," said she, as my companion rose to greet her, "but I have had a
very strange experience, and as I have no parents or relations of any sort from whom I could ask advice, I
thought that perhaps you would be kind enough to tell me what I should do."
"Pray take a seat, Miss Hunter. I shall be happy to do anything that I can to serve you."
I could see that Holmes was favourably impressed by the manner and speech of his new client. He looked her
over in his searching fashion, and then composed himself, with his lids drooping and his finger-tips together,
to listen to her story.
"I have been a governess for five years," said she, "in the family of Colonel Spence Munro, but two months
ago the colonel received an appointment at Halifax, in Nova Scotia, and took his children over to America
with him, so that I found myself without a situation. I advertised, and I answered advertisements, but without
success. At last the little money which I had saved began to run short, and I was at my wit's end as to what I
should do.
"There is a well-known agency for governesses in the West End called Westaway's, and there I used to call
about once a week in order to see whether anything had turned up which might suit me. Westaway was the
name of the founder of the business, but it is really managed by Miss Stoper. She sits in her own little office,
and the ladies who are seeking employment wait in an anteroom, and are then shown in one by one, when she
consults her ledgers and sees whether she has anything which would suit them.
"Well, when I called last week I was shown into the little office as usual, but I found that Miss Stoper was not
alone. A prodigiously stout man with a very smiling face and a great heavy chin which rolled down in fold
upon fold over his throat sat at her elbow with a pair of glasses on his nose, looking very earnestly at the
ladies who entered. As I came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly to Miss Stoper.
"'That will do,' said he; 'I could not ask for anything better. Capital! capital!' He seemed quite enthusiastic and
rubbed his hands together in the most genial fashion. He was such a comfortable-looking man that it was quite
a pleasure to look at him.
"'You are looking for a situation, miss?' he asked.
"'Yes, sir.'
"'As governess?'
"'Yes, sir.'
"'And what salary do you ask?'
"'I had 4 pounds a month in my last place with Colonel Spence Munro.'
"'Oh, tut, tut! sweating--rank sweating!' he cried, throwing his fat hands out into the air like a man who is in a
boiling passion. 'How could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and
accomplishments?'
"'My accomplishments, sir, may be less than you imagine,' said I. 'A little French, a little German, music, andThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 162
drawing--'
"'Tut, tut!' he cried. 'This is all quite beside the question. The point is, have you or have you not the bearing
and deportment of a lady? There it is in a nutshell. If you have not, you are not fitted for the rearing of a child
who may some day play a considerable part in the history of the country. But if you have why, then, how
could any gentleman ask you to condescend to accept anything under the three figures? Your salary with me,
madam, would commence at 100 pounds a year.'
"You may imagine, Mr. Holmes, that to me, destitute as I was, such an offer seemed almost too good to be
true. The gentleman, however, seeing perhaps the look of incredulity upon my face, opened a pocket-book and
took out a note.
"'It is also my custom,' said he, smiling in the most pleasant fashion until his eyes were just two little shining
slits amid the white creases of his face, 'to advance to my young ladies half their salary beforehand, so that
they may meet any little expenses of their journey and their wardrobe.'
"It seemed to me that I had never met so fascinating and so thoughtful a man. As I was already in debt to my
tradesmen, the advance was a great convenience, and yet there was something unnatural about the whole
transaction which made me wish to know a little more before I quite committed myself.
"'May I ask where you live, sir?' said I.
"'Hampshire. Charming rural place. The Copper Beeches, five miles on the far side of Winchester. It is the
most lovely country, my dear young lady, and the dearest old country-house.'
"'And my duties, sir? I should be glad to know what they would be.'
"'One child--one dear little romper just six years old. Oh, if you could see him killing cockroaches with a
slipper! Smack! smack! smack! Three gone before you could wink!' He leaned back in his chair and laughed
his eyes into his head again.
"I was a little startled at the nature of the child's amusement, but the father's laughter made me think that
perhaps he was joking.
"'My sole duties, then,' I asked, 'are to take charge of a single child?'
"'No, no, not the sole, not the sole, my dear young lady,' he cried. 'Your duty would be, as I am sure your good
sense would suggest, to obey any little commands my wife might give, provided always that they were such
commands as a lady might with propriety obey. You see no difficulty, heh?'
"'I should be happy to make myself useful.'
"'Quite so. In dress now, for example. We are faddy people, you know--faddy but kind-hearted. If you were
asked to wear any dress which we might give you, you would not object to our little whim. Heh?'
"'No,' said I, considerably astonished at his words.
"'Or to sit here, or sit there, that would not be offensive to you?'
"'Oh, no.'
"'Or to cut your hair quite short before you come to us?'The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 163
"I could hardly believe my ears. As you may observe, Mr. Holmes, my hair is somewhat luxuriant, and of a
rather peculiar tint of chestnut. It has been considered artistic. I could not dream of sacrificing it in this
offhand fashion.
"'I am afraid that that is quite impossible,' said I. He had been watching me eagerly out of his small eyes, and I
could see a shadow pass over his face as I spoke.
"'I am afraid that it is quite essential,' said he. 'It is a little fancy of my wife's, and ladies' fancies, you know,
madam, ladies' fancies must be consulted. And so you won't cut your hair?'
"'No, sir, I really could not,' I answered firmly.
"'Ah, very well; then that quite settles the matter. It is a pity, because in other respects you would really have
done very nicely. In that case, Miss Stoper, I had best inspect a few more of your young ladies.'
"The manageress had sat all this while busy with her papers without a word to either of us, but she glanced at
me now with so much annoyance upon her face that I could not help suspecting that she had lost a handsome
commission through my refusal.
"'Do you desire your name to be kept upon the books?' she asked.
"'If you please, Miss Stoper.'
"'Well, really, it seems rather useless, since you refuse the most excellent offers in this fashion,' said she
sharply. 'You can hardly expect us to exert ourselves to find another such opening for you. Good-day to you,
Miss Hunter.' She struck a gong upon the table, and I was shown out by the page.
"Well, Mr. Holmes, when I got back to my lodgings and found little enough in the cupboard, and two or three
bills upon the table. I began to ask myself whether I had not done a very foolish thing. After all, if these
people had strange fads and expected obedience on the most extraordinary matters, they were at least ready to
pay for their eccentricity. Very few governesses in England are getting 100 pounds a year. Besides, what use
was my hair to me? Many people are improved by wearing it short and perhaps I should be among the
number. Next day I was inclined to think that I had made a mistake, and by the day after I was sure of it. I had
almost overcome my pride so far as to go back to the agency and inquire whether the place was still open
when I received this letter from the gentleman himself. I have it here and I will read it to you:
"'The Copper Beeches, near Winchester. "'DEAR MISS HUNTER:--Miss Stoper has very kindly given me
your address, and I write from here to ask you whether you have reconsidered your decision. My wife is very
anxious that you should come, for she has been much attracted by my description of you. We are willing to
give 30 pounds a quarter, or 120 pounds a year, so as to recompense you for any little inconvenience which
our fads may cause you. They are not very exacting, after all. My wife is fond of a particular shade of electric
blue and would like you to wear such a dress indoors in the morning. You need not, however, go to the
expense of purchasing one, as we have one belonging to my dear daughter Alice (now in Philadelphia), which
would, I should think, fit you very well. Then, as to sitting here or there, or amusing yourself in any manner
indicated, that need cause you no inconvenience. As regards your hair, it is no doubt a pity, especially as I
could not help remarking its beauty during our short interview, but I am afraid that I must remain firm upon
this point, and I only hope that the increased salary may recompense you for the loss. Your duties, as far as the
child is concerned, are very light. Now do try to come, and I shall meet you with the dog-cart at Winchester.
Let me know your train. Yours faithfully, JEPHRO RUCASTLE.'
"That is the letter which I have just received, Mr. Holmes, and my mind is made up that I will accept it. I
thought, however, that before taking the final step I should like to submit the whole matter to yourThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 164
consideration."
"Well, Miss Hunter, if your mind is made up, that settles the question," said Holmes, smiling.
"But you would not advise me to refuse?"
"I confess that it is not the situation which I should like to see a sister of mine apply for."
"What is the meaning of it all, Mr. Holmes?"
"Ah, I have no data. I cannot tell. Perhaps you have yourself formed some opinion?"
"Well, there seems to me to be only one possible solution. Mr. Rucastle seemed to be a very kind,
good-natured man. Is it not possible that his wife is a lunatic, that he desires to keep the matter quiet for fear
she should be taken to an asylum, and that he humours her fancies in every way in order to prevent an
outbreak?"
"That is a possible solution--in fact, as matters stand, it is the most probable one. But in any case it does not
seem to be a nice household for a young lady."
"But the money, Mr. Holmes, the money!"
"Well, yes, of course the pay is good--too good. That is what makes me uneasy. Why should they give you
120 pounds a year, when they could have their pick for 40 pounds? There must be some strong reason
behind."
"I thought that if I told you the circumstances you would understand afterwards if I wanted your help. I should
feel so much stronger if I felt that you were at the back of me."
"Oh, you may carry that feeling away with you. I assure you that your little problem promises to be the most
interesting which has come my way for some months. There is something distinctly novel about some of the
features. If you should find yourself in doubt or in danger--"
"Danger! What danger do you foresee?"
Holmes shook his head gravely. "It would cease to be a danger if we could define it," said he. "But at any
time, day or night, a telegram would bring me down to your help."
"That is enough." She rose briskly from her chair with the anxiety all swept from her face. "I shall go down to
Hampshire quite easy in my mind now. I shall write to Mr. Rucastle at once, sacrifice my poor hair to-night,
and start for Winchester to-morrow." With a few grateful words to Holmes she bade us both good-night and
bustled off upon her way.
"At least," said I as we heard her quick, firm steps descending the stairs, "she seems to be a young lady who is
very well able to take care of herself."
"And she would need to be," said Holmes gravely. "I am much mistaken if we do not hear from her before
many days are past."
It was not very long before my friend's prediction was fulfilled. A fortnight went by, during which I
frequently found my thoughts turning in her direction and wondering what strange side-alley of human
experience this lonely woman had strayed into. The unusual salary, the curious conditions, the light duties, allThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 165
pointed to something abnormal, though whether a fad or a plot, or whether the man were a philanthropist or a
villain, it was quite beyond my powers to determine. As to Holmes, I observed that he sat frequently for half
an hour on end, with knitted brows and an abstracted air, but he swept the matter away with a wave of his
hand when I mentioned it. "Data! data! data!" he cried impatiently. "I can't make bricks without clay." And
yet he would always wind up by muttering that no sister of his should ever have accepted such a situation.
The telegram which we eventually received came late one night just as I was thinking of turning in and
Holmes was settling down to one of those all-night chemical researches which he frequently indulged in,
when I would leave him stooping over a retort and a test-tube at night and find him in the same position when
I came down to breakfast in the morning. He opened the yellow envelope, and then, glancing at the message,
threw it across to me.
"Just look up the trains in Bradshaw," said he, and turned back to his chemical studies.
The summons was a brief and urgent one.
"Please be at the Black Swan Hotel at Winchester at midday to-morrow," it said. "Do come! I am at my wit's
end. HUNTER."
"Will you come with me?" asked Holmes, glancing up.
"I should wish to."
"Just look it up, then."
"There is a train at half-past nine," said I, glancing over my Bradshaw. "It is due at Winchester at 11:30."
"That will do very nicely. Then perhaps I had better postpone my analysis of the acetones, as we may need to
be at our best in the morning."
By eleven o'clock the next day we were well upon our way to the old English capital. Holmes had been buried
in the morning papers all the way down, but after we had passed the Hampshire border he threw them down
and began to admire the scenery. It was an ideal spring day, a light blue sky, flecked with little fleecy white
clouds drifting across from west to east. The sun was shining very brightly, and yet there was an exhilarating
nip in the air, which set an edge to a man's energy. All over the countryside, away to the rolling hills around
Aldershot, the little red and grey roofs of the farm-steadings peeped out from amid the light green of the new
foliage.
"Are they not fresh and beautiful?" I cried with all the enthusiasm of a man fresh from the fogs of Baker
Street.
But Holmes shook his head gravely.
"Do you know, Watson," said he, "that it is one of the curses of a mind with a turn like mine that I must look
at everything with reference to my own special subject. You look at these scattered houses, and you are
impressed by their beauty. I look at them, and the only thought which comes to me is a feeling of their
isolation and of the impunity with which crime may be committed there."
"Good heavens!" I cried. "Who would associate crime with these dear old homesteads?"
"They always fill me with a certain horror. It is my belief, Watson, founded upon my experience, that the
lowest and vilest alleys in London do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does the smiling andThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 166
beautiful countryside."
"You horrify me!"
"But the reason is very obvious. The pressure of public opinion can do in the town what the law cannot
accomplish. There is no lane so vile that the scream of a tortured child, or the thud of a drunkard's blow, does
not beget sympathy and indignation among the neighbours, and then the whole machinery of justice is ever so
close that a word of complaint can set it going, and there is but a step between the crime and the dock. But
look at these lonely houses, each in its own fields, filled for the most part with poor ignorant folk who know
little of the law. Think of the deeds of hellish cruelty, the hidden wickedness which may go on, year in, year
out, in such places, and none the wiser. Had this lady who appeals to us for help gone to live in Winchester, I
should never have had a fear for her. It is the five miles of country which makes the danger. Still, it is clear
that she is not personally threatened."
"No. If she can come to Winchester to meet us she can get away."
"Quite so. She has her freedom."
"What CAN be the matter, then? Can you suggest no explanation?"
"I have devised seven separate explanations, each of which would cover the facts as far as we know them. But
which of these is correct can only be determined by the fresh information which we shall no doubt find
waiting for us. Well, there is the tower of the cathedral, and we shall soon learn all that Miss Hunter has to
tell."
The Black Swan is an inn of repute in the High Street, at no distance from the station, and there we found the
young lady waiting for us. She had engaged a sitting-room, and our lunch awaited us upon the table.
"I am so delighted that you have come," she said earnestly. "It is so very kind of you both; but indeed I do not
know what I should do. Your advice will be altogether invaluable to me."
"Pray tell us what has happened to you."
"I will do so, and I must be quick, for I have promised Mr. Rucastle to be back before three. I got his leave to
come into town this morning, though he little knew for what purpose."
"Let us have everything in its due order." Holmes thrust his long thin legs out towards the fire and composed
himself to listen.
"In the first place, I may say that I have met, on the whole, with no actual ill-treatment from Mr. and Mrs.
Rucastle. It is only fair to them to say that. But I cannot understand them, and I am not easy in my mind about
them."
"What can you not understand?"
"Their reasons for their conduct. But you shall have it all just as it occurred. When I came down, Mr. Rucastle
met me here and drove me in his dog-cart to the Copper Beeches. It is, as he said, beautifully situated, but it is
not beautiful in itself, for it is a large square block of a house, whitewashed, but all stained and streaked with
damp and bad weather. There are grounds round it, woods on three sides, and on the fourth a field which
slopes down to the Southampton highroad, which curves past about a hundred yards from the front door. This
ground in front belongs to the house, but the woods all round are part of Lord Southerton's preserves. A clump
of copper beeches immediately in front of the hall door has given its name to the place.The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 167
"I was driven over by my employer, who was as amiable as ever, and was introduced by him that evening to
his wife and the child. There was no truth, Mr. Holmes, in the conjecture which seemed to us to be probable in
your rooms at Baker Street. Mrs. Rucastle is not mad. I found her to be a silent, pale-faced woman, much
younger than her husband, not more than thirty, I should think, while he can hardly be less than forty-five.
From their conversation I have gathered that they have been married about seven years, that he was a
widower, and that his only child by the first wife was the daughter who has gone to Philadelphia. Mr. Rucastle
told me in private that the reason why she had left them was that she had an unreasoning aversion to her
stepmother. As the daughter could not have been less than twenty, I can quite imagine that her position must
have been uncomfortable with her father's young wife.
"Mrs. Rucastle seemed to me to be colourless in mind as well as in feature. She impressed me neither
favourably nor the reverse. She was a nonentity. It was easy to see that she was passionately devoted both to
her husband and to her little son. Her light grey eyes wandered continually from one to the other, noting every
little want and forestalling it if possible. He was kind to her also in his bluff, boisterous fashion, and on the
whole they seemed to be a happy couple. And yet she had some secret sorrow, this woman. She would often
be lost in deep thought, with the saddest look upon her face. More than once I have surprised her in tears. I
have thought sometimes that it was the disposition of her child which weighed upon her mind, for I have
never met so utterly spoiled and so ill-natured a little creature. He is small for his age, with a head which is
quite disproportionately large. His whole life appears to be spent in an alternation between savage fits of
passion and gloomy intervals of sulking. Giving pain to any creature weaker than himself seems to be his one
idea of amusement, and he shows quite remarkable talent in planning the capture of mice, little birds, and
insects. But I would rather not talk about the creature, Mr. Holmes, and, indeed, he has little to do with my
story."
"I am glad of all details," remarked my friend, "whether they seem to you to be relevant or not."
"I shall try not to miss anything of importance. The one unpleasant thing about the house, which struck me at
once, was the appearance and conduct of the servants. There are only two, a man and his wife. Toller, for that
is his name, is a rough, uncouth man, with grizzled hair and whiskers, and a perpetual smell of drink. Twice
since I have been with them he has been quite drunk, and yet Mr. Rucastle seemed to take no notice of it. His
wife is a very tall and strong woman with a sour face, as silent as Mrs. Rucastle and much less amiable. They
are a most unpleasant couple, but fortunately I spend most of my time in the nursery and my own room, which
are next to each other in one corner of the building.
"For two days after my arrival at the Copper Beeches my life was very quiet; on the third, Mrs. Rucastle came
down just after breakfast and whispered something to her husband.
"'Oh, yes,' said he, turning to me, 'we are very much obliged to you, Miss Hunter, for falling in with our
whims so far as to cut your hair. I assure you that it has not detracted in the tiniest iota from your appearance.
We shall now see how the electric-blue dress will become you. You will find it laid out upon the bed in your
room, and if you would be so good as to put it on we should both be extremely obliged.'
"The dress which I found waiting for me was of a peculiar shade of blue. It was of excellent material, a sort of
beige, but it bore unmistakable signs of having been worn before. It could not have been a better fit if I had
been measured for it. Both Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle expressed a delight at the look of it, which seemed quite
exaggerated in its vehemence. They were waiting for me in the drawing-room, which is a very large room,
stretching along the entire front of the house, with three long windows reaching down to the floor. A chair had
been placed close to the central window, with its back turned towards it. In this I was asked to sit, and then
Mr. Rucastle, walking up and down on the other side of the room, began to tell me a series of the funniest
stories that I have ever listened to. You cannot imagine how comical he was, and I laughed until I was quite
weary. Mrs. Rucastle, however, who has evidently no sense of humour, never so much as smiled, but sat with
her hands in her lap, and a sad, anxious look upon her face. After an hour or so, Mr. Rucastle suddenlyThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 168
remarked that it was time to commence the duties of the day, and that I might change my dress and go to little
Edward in the nursery.
"Two days later this same performance was gone through under exactly similar circumstances. Again I
changed my dress, again I sat in the window, and again I laughed very heartily at the funny stories of which
my employer had an immense répertoire, and which he told inimitably. Then he handed me a yellow-backed
novel, and moving my chair a little sideways, that my own shadow might not fall upon the page, he begged
me to read aloud to him. I read for about ten minutes, beginning in the heart of a chapter, and then suddenly,
in the middle of a sentence, he ordered me to cease and to change my dress.
"You can easily imagine, Mr. Holmes, how curious I became as to what the meaning of this extraordinary
performance could possibly be. They were always very careful, I observed, to turn my face away from the
window, so that I became consumed with the desire to see what was going on behind my back. At first it
seemed to be impossible, but I soon devised a means. My hand-mirror had been broken, so a happy thought
seized me, and I concealed a piece of the glass in my handkerchief. On the next occasion, in the midst of my
laughter, I put my handkerchief up to my eyes, and was able with a little management to see all that there was
behind me. I confess that I was disappointed. There was nothing. At least that was my first impression. At the
second glance, however, I perceived that there was a man standing in the Southampton Road, a small bearded
man in a grey suit, who seemed to be looking in my direction. The road is an important highway, and there are
usually people there. This man, however, was leaning against the railings which bordered our field and was
looking earnestly up. I lowered my handkerchief and glanced at Mrs. Rucastle to find her eyes fixed upon me
with a most searching gaze. She said nothing, but I am convinced that she had divined that I had a mirror in
my hand and had seen what was behind me. She rose at once.
"'Jephro,' said she, 'there is an impertinent fellow upon the road there who stares up at Miss Hunter.'
"'No friend of yours, Miss Hunter?' he asked.
"'No, I know no one in these parts.'
"'Dear me! How very impertinent! Kindly turn round and motion to him to go away.'
"'Surely it would be better to take no notice.'
"'No, no, we should have him loitering here always. Kindly turn round and wave him away like that.'
"I did as I was told, and at the same instant Mrs. Rucastle drew down the blind. That was a week ago, and
from that time I have not sat again in the window, nor have I worn the blue dress, nor seen the man in the
road."
"Pray continue," said Holmes. "Your narrative promises to be a most interesting one."
"You will find it rather disconnected, I fear, and there may prove to be little relation between the different
incidents of which I speak. On the very first day that I was at the Copper Beeches, Mr. Rucastle took me to a
small outhouse which stands near the kitchen door. As we approached it I heard the sharp rattling of a chain,
and the sound as of a large animal moving about.
"'Look in here!' said Mr. Rucastle, showing me a slit between two planks. 'Is he not a beauty?'
"I looked through and was conscious of two glowing eyes, and of a vague figure huddled up in the darkness.
"'Don't be frightened,' said my employer, laughing at the start which I had given. 'It's only Carlo, my mastiff. IThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 169
call him mine, but really old Toller, my groom, is the only man who can do anything with him. We feed him
once a day, and not too much then, so that he is always as keen as mustard. Toller lets him loose every night,
and God help the trespasser whom he lays his fangs upon. For goodness' sake don't you ever on any pretext set
your foot over the threshold at night, for it's as much as your life is worth.'
"The warning was no idle one, for two nights later I happened to look out of my bedroom window about two
o'clock in the morning. It was a beautiful moonlight night, and the lawn in front of the house was silvered
over and almost as bright as day. I was standing, rapt in the peaceful beauty of the scene, when I was aware
that something was moving under the shadow of the copper beeches. As it emerged into the moonshine I saw
what it was. It was a giant dog, as large as a calf, tawny tinted, with hanging jowl, black muzzle, and huge
projecting bones. It walked slowly across the lawn and vanished into the shadow upon the other side. That
dreadful sentinel sent a chill to my heart which I do not think that any burglar could have done.
"And now I have a very strange experience to tell you. I had, as you know, cut off my hair in London, and I
had placed it in a great coil at the bottom of my trunk. One evening, after the child was in bed, I began to
amuse myself by examining the furniture of my room and by rearranging my own little things. There was an
old chest of drawers in the room, the two upper ones empty and open, the lower one locked. I had filled the
first two with my linen, and as I had still much to pack away I was naturally annoyed at not having the use of
the third drawer. It struck me that it might have been fastened by a mere oversight, so I took out my bunch of
keys and tried to open it. The very first key fitted to perfection, and I drew the drawer open. There was only
one thing in it, but I am sure that you would never guess what it was. It was my coil of hair.
"I took it up and examined it. It was of the same peculiar tint, and the same thickness. But then the
impossibility of the thing obtruded itself upon me. How could my hair have been locked in the drawer? With
trembling hands I undid my trunk, turned out the contents, and drew from the bottom my own hair. I laid the
two tresses together, and I assure you that they were identical. Was it not extraordinary? Puzzle as I would, I
could make nothing at all of what it meant. I returned the strange hair to the drawer, and I said nothing of the
matter to the Rucastles as I felt that I had put myself in the wrong by opening a drawer which they had locked.
"I am naturally observant, as you may have remarked, Mr. Holmes, and I soon had a pretty good plan of the
whole house in my head. There was one wing, however, which appeared not to be inhabited at all. A door
which faced that which led into the quarters of the Tollers opened into this suite, but it was invariably locked.
One day, however, as I ascended the stair, I met Mr. Rucastle coming out through this door, his keys in his
hand, and a look on his face which made him a very different person to the round, jovial man to whom I was
accustomed. His cheeks were red, his brow was all crinkled with anger, and the veins stood out at his temples
with passion. He locked the door and hurried past me without a word or a look.
"This aroused my curiosity, so when I went out for a walk in the grounds with my charge, I strolled round to
the side from which I could see the windows of this part of the house. There were four of them in a row, three
of which were simply dirty, while the fourth was shuttered up. They were evidently all deserted. As I strolled
up and down, glancing at them occasionally, Mr. Rucastle came out to me, looking as merry and jovial as
ever.
"'Ah!' said he, 'you must not think me rude if I passed you without a word, my dear young lady. I was
preoccupied with business matters.'
"I assured him that I was not offended. 'By the way,' said I, 'you seem to have quite a suite of spare rooms up
there, and one of them has the shutters up.'
"He looked surprised and, as it seemed to me, a little startled at my remark.
"'Photography is one of my hobbies,' said he. 'I have made my dark room up there. But, dear me! what anThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 170
observant young lady we have come upon. Who would have believed it? Who would have ever believed it?'
He spoke in a jesting tone, but there was no jest in his eyes as he looked at me. I read suspicion there and
annoyance, but no jest.
"Well, Mr. Holmes, from the moment that I understood that there was something about that suite of rooms
which I was not to know, I was all on fire to go over them. It was not mere curiosity, though I have my share
of that. It was more a feeling of duty--a feeling that some good might come from my penetrating to this place.
They talk of woman's instinct; perhaps it was woman's instinct which gave me that feeling. At any rate, it was
there, and I was keenly on the lookout for any chance to pass the forbidden door.
"It was only yesterday that the chance came. I may tell you that, besides Mr. Rucastle, both Toller and his
wife find something to do in these deserted rooms, and I once saw him carrying a large black linen bag with
him through the door. Recently he has been drinking hard, and yesterday evening he was very drunk; and
when I came upstairs there was the key in the door. I have no doubt at all that he had left it there. Mr. and
Mrs. Rucastle were both downstairs, and the child was with them, so that I had an admirable opportunity. I
turned the key gently in the lock, opened the door, and slipped through.
"There was a little passage in front of me, unpapered and uncarpeted, which turned at a right angle at the
farther end. Round this corner were three doors in a line, the first and third of which were open. They each led
into an empty room, dusty and cheerless, with two windows in the one and one in the other, so thick with dirt
that the evening light glimmered dimly through them. The centre door was closed, and across the outside of it
had been fastened one of the broad bars of an iron bed, padlocked at one end to a ring in the wall, and fastened
at the other with stout cord. The door itself was locked as well, and the key was not there. This barricaded
door corresponded clearly with the shuttered window outside, and yet I could see by the glimmer from
beneath it that the room was not in darkness. Evidently there was a skylight which let in light from above. As
I stood in the passage gazing at the sinister door and wondering what secret it might veil, I suddenly heard the
sound of steps within the room and saw a shadow pass backward and forward against the little slit of dim light
which shone out from under the door. A mad, unreasoning terror rose up in me at the sight, Mr. Holmes. My
overstrung nerves failed me suddenly, and I turned and ran--ran as though some dreadful hand were behind
me clutching at the skirt of my dress. I rushed down the passage, through the door, and straight into the arms
of Mr. Rucastle, who was waiting outside.
"'So,' said he, smiling, 'it was you, then. I thought that it must be when I saw the door open.'
"'Oh, I am so frightened!' I panted.
"'My dear young lady! my dear young lady!'--you cannot think how caressing and soothing his manner
was--'and what has frightened you, my dear young lady?'
"But his voice was just a little too coaxing. He overdid it. I was keenly on my guard against him.
"'I was foolish enough to go into the empty wing,' I answered. 'But it is so lonely and eerie in this dim light
that I was frightened and ran out again. Oh, it is so dreadfully still in there!'
"'Only that?' said he, looking at me keenly.
"'Why, what did you think?' I asked.
"'Why do you think that I lock this door?'
"'I am sure that I do not know.'The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 171
"'It is to keep people out who have no business there. Do you see?' He was still smiling in the most amiable
manner.
"'I am sure if I had known--'
"'Well, then, you know now. And if you ever put your foot over that threshold again'--here in an instant the
smile hardened into a grin of rage, and he glared down at me with the face of a demon--'I'll throw you to the
mastiff.'
"I was so terrified that I do not know what I did. I suppose that I must have rushed past him into my room. I
remember nothing until I found myself lying on my bed trembling all over. Then I thought of you, Mr.
Holmes. I could not live there longer without some advice. I was frightened of the house, of the man, of the
woman, of the servants, even of the child. They were all horrible to me. If I could only bring you down all
would be well. Of course I might have fled from the house, but my curiosity was almost as strong as my fears.
My mind was soon made up. I would send you a wire. I put on my hat and cloak, went down to the office,
which is about half a mile from the house, and then returned, feeling very much easier. A horrible doubt came
into my mind as I approached the door lest the dog might be loose, but I remembered that Toller had drunk
himself into a state of insensibility that evening, and I knew that he was the only one in the household who
had any influence with the savage creature, or who would venture to set him free. I slipped in in safety and lay
awake half the night in my joy at the thought of seeing you. I had no difficulty in getting leave to come into
Winchester this morning, but I must be back before three o'clock, for Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle are going on a
visit, and will be away all the evening, so that I must look after the child. Now I have told you all my
adventures, Mr. Holmes, and I should be very glad if you could tell me what it all means, and, above all, what
I should do."
Holmes and I had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story. My friend rose now and paced up and down
the room, his hands in his pockets, and an expression of the most profound gravity upon his face.
"Is Toller still drunk?" he asked.
"Yes. I heard his wife tell Mrs. Rucastle that she could do nothing with him."
"That is well. And the Rucastles go out to-night?"
"Yes."
"Is there a cellar with a good strong lock?"
"Yes, the wine-cellar."
"You seem to me to have acted all through this matter like a very brave and sensible girl, Miss Hunter. Do you
think that you could perform one more feat? I should not ask it of you if I did not think you a quite
exceptional woman."
"I will try. What is it?"
"We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seven o'clock, my friend and I. The Rucastles will be gone by that
time, and Toller will, we hope, be incapable. There only remains Mrs. Toller, who might give the alarm. If
you could send her into the cellar on some errand, and then turn the key upon her, you would facilitate matters
immensely."
"I will do it."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 172
"Excellent! We shall then look thoroughly into the affair. Of course there is only one feasible explanation.
You have been brought there to personate someone, and the real person is imprisoned in this chamber. That is
obvious. As to who this prisoner is, I have no doubt that it is the daughter, Miss Alice Rucastle, if I remember
right, who was said to have gone to America. You were chosen, doubtless, as resembling her in height, figure,
and the colour of your hair. Hers had been cut off, very possibly in some illness through which she has passed,
and so, of course, yours had to be sacrificed also. By a curious chance you came upon her tresses. The man in
the road was undoubtedly some friend of hers--possibly her fiancé--and no doubt, as you wore the girl's dress
and were so like her, he was convinced from your laughter, whenever he saw you, and afterwards from your
gesture, that Miss Rucastle was perfectly happy, and that she no longer desired his attentions. The dog is let
loose at night to prevent him from endeavouring to communicate with her. So much is fairly clear. The most
serious point in the case is the disposition of the child."
"What on earth has that to do with it?" I ejaculated.
"My dear Watson, you as a medical man are continually gaining light as to the tendencies of a child by the
study of the parents. Don't you see that the converse is equally valid. I have frequently gained my first real
insight into the character of parents by studying their children. This child's disposition is abnormally cruel,
merely for cruelty's sake, and whether he derives this from his smiling father, as I should suspect, or from his
mother, it bodes evil for the poor girl who is in their power."
"I am sure that you are right, Mr. Holmes," cried our client. "A thousand things come back to me which make
me certain that you have hit it. Oh, let us lose not an instant in bringing help to this poor creature."
"We must be circumspect, for we are dealing with a very cunning man. We can do nothing until seven o'clock.
At that hour we shall be with you, and it will not be long before we solve the mystery."
We were as good as our word, for it was just seven when we reached the Copper Beeches, having put up our
trap at a wayside public-house. The group of trees, with their dark leaves shining like burnished metal in the
light of the setting sun, were sufficient to mark the house even had Miss Hunter not been standing smiling on
the door-step.
"Have you managed it?" asked Holmes.
A loud thudding noise came from somewhere downstairs. "That is Mrs. Toller in the cellar," said she. "Her
husband lies snoring on the kitchen rug. Here are his keys, which are the duplicates of Mr. Rucastle's."
"You have done well indeed!" cried Holmes with enthusiasm. "Now lead the way, and we shall soon see the
end of this black business."
We passed up the stair, unlocked the door, followed on down a passage, and found ourselves in front of the
barricade which Miss Hunter had described. Holmes cut the cord and removed the transverse bar. Then he
tried the various keys in the lock, but without success. No sound came from within, and at the silence Holmes'
face clouded over.
"I trust that we are not too late," said he. "I think, Miss Hunter, that we had better go in without you. Now,
Watson, put your shoulder to it, and we shall see whether we cannot make our way in."
It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength. Together we rushed into the room. It
was empty. There was no furniture save a little pallet bed, a small table, and a basketful of linen. The skylight
above was open, and the prisoner gone.
"There has been some villainy here," said Holmes; "this beauty has guessed Miss Hunter's intentions and hasThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 173
carried his victim off."
"But how?"
"Through the skylight. We shall soon see how he managed it." He swung himself up onto the roof. "Ah, yes,"
he cried, "here's the end of a long light ladder against the eaves. That is how he did it."
"But it is impossible," said Miss Hunter; "the ladder was not there when the Rucastles went away."
"He has come back and done it. I tell you that he is a clever and dangerous man. I should not be very much
surprised if this were he whose step I hear now upon the stair. I think, Watson, that it would be as well for you
to have your pistol ready."
The words were hardly out of his mouth before a man appeared at the door of the room, a very fat and burly
man, with a heavy stick in his hand. Miss Hunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at the sight of him, but
Sherlock Holmes sprang forward and confronted him.
"You villain!" said he, "where's your daughter?"
The fat man cast his eyes round, and then up at the open skylight.
"It is for me to ask you that," he shrieked, "you thieves! Spies and thieves! I have caught you, have I? You are
in my power. I'll serve you!" He turned and clattered down the stairs as hard as he could go.
"He's gone for the dog!" cried Miss Hunter.
"I have my revolver," said I.
"Better close the front door," cried Holmes, and we all rushed down the stairs together. We had hardly
reached the hall when we heard the baying of a hound, and then a scream of agony, with a horrible worrying
sound which it was dreadful to listen to. An elderly man with a red face and shaking limbs came staggering
out at a side door.
"My God!" he cried. "Someone has loosed the dog. It's not been fed for two days. Quick, quick, or it'll be too
late!"
Holmes and I rushed out and round the angle of the house, with Toller hurrying behind us. There was the huge
famished brute, its black muzzle buried in Rucastle's throat, while he writhed and screamed upon the ground.
Running up, I blew its brains out, and it fell over with its keen white teeth still meeting in the great creases of
his neck. With much labour we separated them and carried him, living but horribly mangled, into the house.
We laid him upon the drawing-room sofa, and having dispatched the sobered Toller to bear the news to his
wife, I did what I could to relieve his pain. We were all assembled round him when the door opened, and a
tall, gaunt woman entered the room.
"Mrs. Toller!" cried Miss Hunter.
"Yes, miss. Mr. Rucastle let me out when he came back before he went up to you. Ah, miss, it is a pity you
didn't let me know what you were planning, for I would have told you that your pains were wasted."
"Ha!" said Holmes, looking keenly at her. "It is clear that Mrs. Toller knows more about this matter than
anyone else."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 174
"Yes, sir, I do, and I am ready enough to tell what I know."
"Then, pray, sit down, and let us hear it for there are several points on which I must confess that I am still in
the dark."
"I will soon make it clear to you," said she; "and I'd have done so before now if I could ha' got out from the
cellar. If there's police-court business over this, you'll remember that I was the one that stood your friend, and
that I was Miss Alice's friend too.
"She was never happy at home, Miss Alice wasn't, from the time that her father married again. She was
slighted like and had no say in anything, but it never really became bad for her until after she met Mr. Fowler
at a friend's house. As well as I could learn, Miss Alice had rights of her own by will, but she was so quiet and
patient, she was, that she never said a word about them but just left everything in Mr. Rucastle's hands. He
knew he was safe with her; but when there was a chance of a husband coming forward, who would ask for all
that the law would give him, then her father thought it time to put a stop on it. He wanted her to sign a paper,
so that whether she married or not, he could use her money. When she wouldn't do it, he kept on worrying her
until she got brain-fever, and for six weeks was at death's door. Then she got better at last, all worn to a
shadow, and with her beautiful hair cut off; but that didn't make no change in her young man, and he stuck to
her as true as man could be."
"Ah," said Holmes, "I think that what you have been good enough to tell us makes the matter fairly clear, and
that I can deduce all that remains. Mr. Rucastle then, I presume, took to this system of imprisonment?"
"Yes, sir."
"And brought Miss Hunter down from London in order to get rid of the disagreeable persistence of Mr.
Fowler."
"That was it, sir."
"But Mr. Fowler being a persevering man, as a good seaman should be, blockaded the house, and having met
you succeeded by certain arguments, metallic or otherwise, in convincing you that your interests were the
same as his."
"Mr. Fowler was a very kind-spoken, free-handed gentleman," said Mrs. Toller serenely.
"And in this way he managed that your good man should have no want of drink, and that a ladder should be
ready at the moment when your master had gone out."
"You have it, sir, just as it happened."
"I am sure we owe you an apology, Mrs. Toller," said Holmes, "for you have certainly cleared up everything
which puzzled us. And here comes the country surgeon and Mrs. Rucastle, so I think, Watson, that we had
best escort Miss Hunter back to Winchester, as it seems to me that our locus standi now is rather a
questionable one."
And thus was solved the mystery of the sinister house with the copper beeches in front of the door. Mr.
Rucastle survived, but was always a broken man, kept alive solely through the care of his devoted wife. They
still live with their old servants, who probably know so much of Rucastle's past life that he finds it difficult to
part from them. Mr. Fowler and Miss Rucastle were married, by special license, in Southampton the day after
their flight, and he is now the holder of a government appointment in the island of Mauritius. As to Miss
Violet Hunter, my friend Holmes, rather to my disappointment, manifested no further interest in her whenThe Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 175
once she had ceased to be the centre of one of his problems, and she is now the head of a private school at
Walsall, where I believe that she has met with considerable success.
*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK, THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES
***
This file should be named advsh12.txt or advsh12.zip Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks get a new
NUMBER, advsh13.txt VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER, advsh12a.txt
Project Gutenberg eBooks are often created from several printed editions, all of which are confirmed as Public
Domain in the US unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we usually do not keep eBooks in compliance
with any particular paper edition.
We are now trying to release all our eBooks one year in advance of the official release dates, leaving time for
better editing. Please be encouraged to tell us about any error or corrections, even years after the official
publication date.
Please note neither this listing nor its contents are final til midnight of the last day of the month of any such
announcement. The official release date of all Project Gutenberg eBooks is at Midnight, Central Time, of the
last day of the stated month. A preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment and editing
by those who wish to do so.
Most people start at our Web sites at: http://gutenberg.net or http://promo.net/pg
These Web sites include award-winning information about Project Gutenberg, including how to donate, how
to help produce our new eBooks, and how to subscribe to our email newsletter (free!).
Those of you who want to download any eBook before announcement can get to them as follows, and just
download by date. This is also a good way to get them instantly upon announcement, as the indexes our
cataloguers produce obviously take a while after an announcement goes out in the Project Gutenberg
Newsletter.
http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext04 or ftp://ftp.ibiblio.org/pub/docs/books/gutenberg/etext04
Or /etext03, 02, 01, 00, 99, 98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90
Just search by the first five letters of the filename you want, as it appears in our Newsletters.
Information about Project Gutenberg
(one page)
We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work. The time it takes us, a rather conservative
estimate, is fifty hours to get any eBook selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright searched and analyzed,
the copyright letters written, etc. Our projected audience is one hundred million readers. If the value per text is
nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2 million dollars per hour in 2002 as we release over 100
new text files per month: 1240 more eBooks in 2001 for a total of 4000+ We are already on our way to trying
for 2000 more eBooks in 2002 If they reach just 1-2% of the world's population then the total will reach over
half a trillion eBooks given away by year's end.
The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away 1 Trillion eBooks! This is ten thousand titles each to one
hundred million readers, which is only about 4% of the present number of computer users.Information about Project Gutenberg 176
Here is the briefest record of our progress (* means estimated):
eBooks Year Month
1 1971 July 10 1991 January 100 1994 January 1000 1997 August 1500 1998 October 2000 1999 December
2500 2000 December 3000 2001 November 4000 2001 October/November 6000 2002 December* 9000 2003
November* 10000 2004 January*
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation has been created to secure a future for Project Gutenberg
into the next millennium.
We need your donations more than ever!
As of February, 2002, contributions are being solicited from people and organizations in: Alabama, Alaska,
Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska,
Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia,
Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.
We have filed in all 50 states now, but these are the only ones that have responded.
As the requirements for other states are met, additions to this list will be made and fund raising will begin in
the additional states. Please feel free to ask to check the status of your state.
In answer to various questions we have received on this:
We are constantly working on finishing the paperwork to legally request donations in all 50 states. If your
state is not listed and you would like to know if we have added it since the list you have, just ask.
While we cannot solicit donations from people in states where we are not yet registered, we know of no
prohibition against accepting donations from donors in these states who approach us with an offer to donate.
International donations are accepted, but we don't know ANYTHING about how to make them tax-deductible,
or even if they CAN be made deductible, and don't have the staff to handle it even if there are ways.
Donations by check or money order may be sent to:
Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation PMB 113 1739 University Ave. Oxford, MS 38655-4109
Contact us if you want to arrange for a wire transfer or payment method other than by check or money order.
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation has been approved by the US Internal Revenue Service as
a 501(c)(3) organization with EIN [Employee Identification Number] 64-622154. Donations are
tax-deductible to the maximum extent permitted by law. As fund-raising requirements for other states are met,
additions to this list will be made and fund-raising will begin in the additional states.
We need your donations more than ever!
You can get up to date donation information online at:
http://www.gutenberg.net/donation.htmlInformation about Project Gutenberg 177
***
If you can't reach Project Gutenberg, you can always email directly to:
Michael S. Hart <hart@pobox.com>
Prof. Hart will answer or forward your message.
We would prefer to send you information by email.
**
The Legal Small Print
**
(Three Pages)
***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN EBOOKS**START*** Why is this "Small
Print!" statement here? You know: lawyers. They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
your copy of this eBook, even if you got it for free from someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is
not our fault. So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement disclaims most of our liability to you. It
also tells you how you may distribute copies of this eBook if you want to.
*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS EBOOK By using or reading any part of this PROJECT
GUTENBERG-tm eBook, you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept this "Small Print!" statement.
If you do not, you can receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this eBook by sending a request
within 30 days of receiving it to the person you got it from. If you received this eBook on a physical medium
(such as a disk), you must return it with your request.
ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM EBOOKS This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBook, like most
PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBooks, is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor Michael S. Hart
through the Project Gutenberg Association (the "Project"). Among other things, this means that no one owns a
United States copyright on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth below, apply if you
wish to copy and distribute this eBook under the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.
Please do not use the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark to market any commercial products without
permission.
To create these eBooks, the Project expends considerable efforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public
domain works. Despite these efforts, the Project's eBooks and any medium they may be on may contain
"Defects". Among other things, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data,
transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other eBook medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.
LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below, [1] Michael Hart and the Foundation (and any
other party you may receive this eBook from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBook) disclaims all liability
to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR
NEGLIGENCE OR UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,The Legal Small Print 178
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL
DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
If you discover a Defect in this eBook within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money
(if any) you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that time to the person you received it from. If
you received it on a physical medium, you must return it with your note, and such person may choose to
alternatively give you a replacement copy. If you received it electronically, such person may choose to
alternatively give you a second opportunity to receive it electronically.
THIS EBOOK IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS". NO OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS TO THE EBOOK OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY
BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or the exclusion or limitation of consequential
damages, so the above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you may have other legal rights.
INDEMNITY
You will indemnify and hold Michael Hart, the Foundation, and its trustees and agents, and any volunteers
associated with the production and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm texts harmless, from all liability, cost
and expense, including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following that you do or
cause: [1] distribution of this eBook, [2] alteration, modification, or addition to the eBook, or [3] any Defect.
DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
You may distribute copies of this eBook electronically, or by disk, book or any other medium if you either
delete this "Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg, or:
[1] Only give exact copies of it. Among other things, this requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
eBook or this "small print!" statement. You may however, if you wish, distribute this eBook in machine
readable binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form, including any form resulting from conversion by
word processing or hypertext software, but only so long as *EITHER*:
[*] The eBook, when displayed, is clearly readable, and does *not* contain characters other than those
intended by the author of the work, although tilde (~), asterisk (*) and underline (i) characters may be used to
convey punctuation intended by the author, and additional characters may be used to indicate hypertext links;
OR
[*] The eBook may be readily converted by the reader at no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
form by the program that displays the eBook (as is the case, for instance, with most word processors); OR
[*] You provide, or agree to also provide on request at no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the eBook
in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC or other equivalent proprietary form).
[2] Honor the eBook refund and replacement provisions of this "Small Print!" statement.
[3] Pay a trademark license fee to the Foundation of 20% of the gross profits you derive calculated using the
method you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. If you don't derive profits, no royalty is due.
Royalties are payable to "Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation" the 60 days following each date
you prepare (or were legally required to prepare) your annual (or equivalent periodic) tax return. Please
contact us beforehand to let us know your plans and to work out the details.The Legal Small Print 179
WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
Project Gutenberg is dedicated to increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form.
The Project gratefully accepts contributions of money, time, public domain materials, or royalty free
copyright licenses. Money should be paid to the: "Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
If you are interested in contributing scanning equipment or software or other items, please contact Michael
Hart at: hart@pobox.com
[Portions of this eBook's header and trailer may be reprinted only when distributed free of all fees. Copyright
(C) 2001, 2002 by Michael S. Hart. Project Gutenberg is a TradeMark and may not be used in any sales of
Project Gutenberg eBooks or other materials be they hardware or software or any other related product
without express permission.]
*END THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN EBOOKS*Ver.02/11/02*END*
The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes
by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
A free ebook from http://manybooks.net/The Legal Small Print 180
