CHAPTER I
PAGE
.............

CHAPTER II
....................

CHAPTER III
..

CHAPTER IV
...

CHAPTER V

CHAPTER VI
Mina Murray's Journal 69
.................

CHAPTER VII
Cutting from "The Dailygraph," 8August 83
.......

CHAPTER VIII
Mina Murray's Journal 98
......

CHAPTER IX
Mina Murray's Journal 114
...... ...

CHAPTER X
PAGE
Mina Murray's Journal 129

CHAPTER XI
Lucy Westenra's Diary 145
.... ....

CHAPTER XII
Dr. Seward's Diary 159
... ............

CHAPTER XIII
Dr. Seward's Diary 178
.. ...

CHAPTER XIV
Mina Harker's Journal 196
....

CHAPTER XV
Dr. Seward's Diary 213

CHAPTER XVI
Dr. Seward's Diary 228
.. ..........

CHAPTER XVII
Dr. Seward's Diary 240

CHAPTER XVIII
Dr. Seward's Diary 255
........

CHAPTER XIX
.....................

CHAPTER XX
...... ...

CHAPTER XXI
PAGE
Dr. Seward's Diary 303
........

CHAPTER XXII
...................

CHAPTER XXIII
Dr. Seward's Diary 333

CHAPTER XXIV
Helsing 348

CHAPTER XXV
Dr. Seward's Diary 364
..

CHAPTER XXVI
Dr. Seward's Diary 380
.....

CHAPTER XXVII
Mina Harker's Journal
...... ............. 399

CHAPTER I
3 May. Bistritz.-Left Munich at 8:35 P. M., on Ist
May, arrivingat Vienna early next morning; shouldhave
seems a wonderful place, from the glimpse which I got
the streets. I feared togo very far fromthe station, as we
possible. The impression I had was that we were leaving
rule.
Klausenburgh. Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel
Royale. I had fordinner, or rather supper, achickendone
up somewaywith red pepper, which was very good but
thirsty. ( Mem., get recipe for Mina.) Iasked the waiter,
very useful here; indeed, I don't know how I should be
able to get on without it.
Havinghad sometimeatmydisposal when in London,

⚫ithadstruck me that some foreknowledgeofthecountry
named is in the extreme east of the country, just on the
but I found that Bistritz, the post town named by Count
some of mynotes, astheymay refreshmy memory when
I talkover mytravels with Mina.
when the Magyars conquered thecountry in the eleventh
centurytheyfoundtheHunssettledinit. Ireadthatevery
knownsuperstitionintheworldisgathered intothehorse-
sort of imaginative whirlpool; if so my staymaybe very
1 interesting. (Mem., I must askthe Countallabout them.)
Idid not sleep well, though my bed was comfortable
enough, for I hadall sorts of queer dreams. There was a
doghowlingall night under my window, which may have
had something to do with it; or it may have been the
paprika, for I had to drink upall the water inmycarafe,
wakenedbythecontinuousknockingatmydoor, so Iguess
Imusthavebeensleeping soundly then. I had for break-
with forcemeat, a very excellent dish, which they call
"impletata." (Mem., get recipe for this also.) I had to
hurrybreakfast, forthetrainstartedalittlebefore eight,
or ratheritoughttohavedoneso, for after rushing tothe
}

the furthereastyougothemoreunpunctualarethetrains.
What ought they to be in China?
Allday long we seemed to dawdle through a country
whichwas fullofbeautyof everykind. Sometimes we saw
little towns or castles on the top of steep hills such as we
which seemed from the wide stony margin on each side
of them to be subject to great floods. It takes a lot of
river clear. At every stationthere weregroups of people,
picturesque. The women looked pretty, except when you
gotnear them,butthey wereveryclumsyabout the waist.
the most of them had big belts with a lot of strips of
something fluttering from them like the dresses in abal-
let, but of course there were petticoats under them. The
enormous heavy leather belts, nearly a foot wide, all
studded over withbrass nails. They worehighboots, with
but do not look prepossessing. Onthe stage they would
It was on the dark side of twilight when we got to
Bistritz, which is avery interestingoldplace.Being prac-
tically on the frontier-for the Borgo Pass leads from it ۱
certainly shows marks of it. Fifty years ago a series of
great fires took place, which made terrible havoc on five
separate occasions. At the very beginning of the seven-

lost 13,000 people, the casualties of war proper being
Krone Hotel, which I found, to my great delight, to be
I could of the ways of the country. I was evidently ex-
pected, for when I got near the door I faced a cheery-
coloured stuff fitting almost too tight for modesty. When
sleeves, who had followed her to the door. He went, but
immediately returned with a letter:-
morrow the diligence will start for Bukovina; a place on
it is kept for you. At the Borgo Pass my carriage will
"Your friend,
the Count, directing him to secure the best place on the
coach for me; but on making inquiries as to details he
up to then he had understood it perfectly; at least, he
wife, the old lady who had received me, looked at each
other in a frightened sort of way. He mumbled out that the

simply refused to speak further. It was so near the time
ing.
Justbefore I was leaving, the old lady came up to my
"Must you go? Oh! young Herr, must you go?" She
the fourth of May. She shookherheadas she said again:
"Oh, yes! I knowthat! I know that, but do you know
she went on:
"It is the eve of St. George's Day. Do you not know
that to-night, whentheclock strikes midnight, all the evil
things in the world will have full sway? Do you know
in such evident distress that I tried to comfort her, but
implored me nottogo; atleasttowaitaday ortwo before
starting. It was all very ridiculousbutIdid not feel com-
could allow nothing to interfere with it. I therefore tried
fix fromher neck offered itto me. I did not know what to
the doubt in my face, for she put the rosary round my
of the room. I amwriting up this part of thediary whilst

the crucifix is still roundmy neck. Whether it is the old
the crucifix itself, I do not know, but I am not feeling
nearly as easy in my mind as usual. If this book should
ever reach Mina before I do, let it bring my good-bye.
Here comes the coach!
5 May. The Castle. The grey of the morning has
seems jagged, whether with trees or hills I know not,
that I dined too well before I left Bistritz, let me put
down my dinner exactly. I dined on what they called
thefire, inthesimple styleof the Londoncat's meat! The
winewasGolden Mediasch, which produces aqueer sting
on thetongue, which is, however, not disagreeable. I had
When I got onthe coach the driver had not taken his
onthebenchoutsidethedoor-whichthey callby a name
looked at me, most of them pityingly. I could hear a lot
nationalities in the crowd; so I quietly got my polyglot
they were not cheering to me, for amongst them were
thing that iseither were-wolf orvampire. (Mem., I must
askthe Countaboutthese superstitions.)
Whenwe started, thecrowdroundthe inndoor, which
had by this time swelled to aconsiderable size, all made

With some difficulty I got a fellow-passenger to tell me
learning that I was English, he explained that it was a
charm or guard against the evil eye. This was not very
not but be touched. I shall never forget the last glimpse
figures, all crossing themselves, as they stood round the
wide archway, with its background of rich foliage of
centre of the yard. Then our driver, whose wide linen
drawers coveredthe whole front ofthe box-seat-"gotza"
they call them-cracked his big whip over his four small
beauty of the scene as we drove along, although had I
passengers were speaking, Imight not havebeen able to
throw them off so easily. Before us lay a green sloping
hills, crowned with clumps of trees or with farmhouses,
bewildering mass of fruit blossom-apple, plum, pear,
amongst thesegreen hills of what they call here the "Mit-
grassy curve, or was shut out by the straggling ends of
like tongues of flame. The road was rugged, but still we
seemed to fly over it with a feverish haste. I could not
evidentlybenton losing no time inreaching Borgo Prund.
Iwas told that this road is in summertime excellent, but
that it had not yet been put in order after the winter
snows. Inthis respect it isdifferent from the general run

they are not to be kept in too good order. Of old the
Hospadars would not repair them, lest the Turk should
thinkthat they were preparing to bring in foreign troops,
point.
mighty slopes of forest up to the lofty steeps of the Car-
peak of a mountain, which seemed, as we wound on our
serpentine way, to be right before us:-
himself reverently.
attire, but I noticed that goitre was painfully prevalent.
did not even turnroundas we approached,but seemed in
the self-surrender of devotion to have neither eyes nor
very beautiful masses of weeping birch, their white stems
shining like silver through the delicate green of the leaves.

latedtosuitthe inequalities ofthe road. Onthis were sure
into onedarkmistiness thegloom of thetrees, oak, beech,
spurs of the hills, as we ascended through the Pass, the
of late-lyingsnow. Sometimes, as the road wascutthrough
the pine woods that seemed in the darkness to be closing
through the valleys. Sometimes the hills were so steep
that, despite our driver's haste, the horses could only go
athome, butthedriver wouldnothear of it. "No, no," he
said; "you must not walk here; the dogs are too fierce”;
ters beforeyougo to sleep." Theonlystophewould make
was a moment's pause to light his lamps.
When it grew dark there seemed to be some excitement
oneaftertheother, asthoughurginghimto furtherspeed.
withwildcries ofencouragementurgedthemonto further
exertions. Then through the darkness I could see a sort
ofpatch ofgrey light aheadofus, asthough there were a
cleft inthehills. The excitement of the passengers grew
greater; thecrazycoach rockedonitsgreatleather springs,

along. Then the mountains seemed to come nearer to us
ing on the Borgo Pass. One by one several of the pas-
sengers offered me gifts, which they pressed upon me
ments which I had seen outside the hotel at Bistritz-the
peeredeagerlyintothe darkness. Itwas evidentthat some-
thing very exciting was eitherhappening or expected, but
though I asked each passenger, no one would give me the
opening outontheeastern side. There were dark, rolling
thethunderous one. Iwas nowmyselflooking out for the
moment I expected to see theglare of lamps through the
blackness;butallwasdark. Theonlylight was the flicker-
ing rays of our own lamps, inwhich the steam from our
harddrivenhorses roseinawhite cloud. Wecould seenow
no sign of a vehicle. The passengers drew back with a
sigh of gladness, which seemed to mock my own disap-
pointment. I was already thinking what I had best do,
when the driver, looking at his watch, said to the others
something which I could hardly hear, it was spoken so
"There is no carriage here. The Herr is not expected
morrow or the next day; betterthe nextday." Whilst he

plunge wildly, so that the driver had to hold them up.
auniversal crossing of themselves, a calèche, with four
beside the coach. I couldsee from the flash of our lamps,
as the rays fell onthem, that the horses were coal-black
seemed to hide his face from us. I could only see the
gleam of a pair of very bright eyes, which seemed red in
thelamplight, asheturnedtous. He saidto the driver:-
mered in reply:-
"The English Herr was in a hurry," to which the
"That is why, I suppose, you wishedhim to go on to
ger's "Lenore" :-
"Denn die Todten reiten schnell"-
("For the dead travel fast.")
lookedupwithagleamingsmile. The passenger turned his
crossing himself. "Give me the Herr's luggage," said the
ofthecoach, asthecalèche was close alongside, the driver
steel; his strength must have been prodigious. Without a
intothedarkness of the Pass. As I lookedback I saw the
steam from the horses of the coach by the light of the

Count bade me take all care of you. There is a flask of
was a comfort to know it was there all the same. I felt a
of prosecutingthat unknown night journey. The carriage
went at a hard pace straight along, then we made a com-
flame lookedatmywatch; it was within a few minutes of
midnight. This gave me a sort of shock, for I supposethe
general superstition about midnight was increased by my
recent experiences. I waited with a sick feeling of sus-
pense.
far down the road-a long, agonised wailing, as if from
which seemed to come from all overthe country, as far as
the imagination could grasp it through the gloom of the
a run-away from sudden fright. Then, far off inthedis-

had to use all his great strength to keep them from bolt-
ing. In a few minutes, however, my own ears got accus-
thingintheirears, as I have heard of horse-tamers doing,
started off at a great pace. This time, after going to the
far side of the Pass, he suddenly turned down a narrow
Soon we were hemmed in with trees, which in places
arched right over the roadway till we passed as through
boldly oneitherside.Though wewere inshelter, wecould
still carried the howling of the dogs, though this grew
fainter as wewent on our way. Thebaying of thewolves
round on us from every side. I grew dreadfully afraid,
not intheleastdisturbed; hekeptturninghis head to left
ness.
Suddenly, awayonourleft,Isawafaint flickering blue
flame. The driver saw it atthe same moment; he at once
peared into the darkness. I did not know what todo, the
less as the howling of the wolves grew closer; but while

looking back, it is like a sort ofawful nightmare. Once
the flame appeared so near the road, that even in the
darkness around us I could watch the driver's motions.
He went rapidly to where the blue flame arose it must
have been very faint, for itdid not seem to illumine the
hedid not obstruct it, for I could see its ghostly flicker
all the same. This startled me, but as the effect was only
momentary, I took it that my eyes deceived mestraining
through thedarkness. Then for atimetherewerenoblue
howling of the wolves around us, as though they were
following in amoving circle.
Atlast there came atime whenthe driver went further
thehowlingofthe wolveshadceased altogether;butjust
thenthemoon, sailing throughtheblackclouds, appeared
by its light I saw aroundus aring ofwolves, with white
shaggy hair. They were a hundred times more terrible in
howled. For myself, Ifeltasort ofparalysis of fear. It is
moonlight had had some peculiar effect on them. The
round with eyes that rolled in awaypainfulto see;but
thelivingringofterrorencompassed them oneveryside;

calèche,hopingby the noiseto scarethe wolves from that
hecame there, I know not, but Iheard hisvoice raised in
longarms, as though brushing aside some impalpable ob-
aheavy cloud passed across the face of the moon, so
thatwewereagainindarkness.
When I could see again the driver was climbing into
interminableas we swept onourway, now inalmost com-
pletedarkness, for the rolling clouds obscuredthe moon.
Wekept onascending, with occasional periods of quick
descent,butinthemainalways ascending. Suddenly, I be-
came conscious of the fact that the driver was inthe act
ofpullingupthehorses inthe courtyardof avast ruined
castle, from whose tall black windows came no ray of
against the moonlit sky.

CHAPTER II
5May. I must have been asleep, forcertainly if I had
been fullyawake I musthave noticed the approach of such
a remarkable place. In the gloom the courtyard looked
itreally is. Ihavenotyetbeenable to see itbydaylight.
When the calèche stopped, the driver jumped down
seemed like a steelvicethatcouldhave crushed mineifhe
on the groundbeside me as Istoodclose to a great door,
ing doorway of massive stone. I could see even in the
dim lightthatthe stone was massivelycarved, but thatthe
disappeared down one of the dark openings.
Istoodinsilence where I was, for Idid not know what
to do. Of bell or knocker there was no sign; through
likely that my voice could penetrate. The time I waited
kind of people? What sort of grim adventure was it on
which I had embarked? Was this a customary incident in
the life of a solicitor's clerk sent out to explain the pur-
chase of a London estate to a foreigner? Solicitor's clerk!
Minawould not like that. Solicitor for just before leav-
ing London I gotword that my examination was success-

with the.dawn struggling in through the windows, as I
Just as I had come to this conclusion I heard a heavy
thechinks thegleam of acoming light. Then there was the
drawn back. Akey was turned withthe loudgrating noise
kind, throwing long quivering shadows as it flickered in
will!" He made no motion of stepping to meet me, but
stood like a statue, as though his gesture of welcome had
stepped over thethreshold,he movedimpulsively forward,
leavesomething ofthehappinessyoubring!" The strength
noticed in the driver, whose face I had not seen, that for
a moment I doubted if it were not the same person to

whom I was speaking; so to make sure, I said interro-
gatively:-
plied:-
gage; he had carried it in before I could forestall him. I
protested but he insisted:ï
arenot available. Let me seetoyour comfort myself." He
to see withinawell-lit room inwhich atable was spread
The Count halted, putting down my bags, closed the
It was a welcome sight; for here was a great bedroom
to but lately, for the top logs were fresh-which sent a
hollowroarupthe wide chimney. The Count himself left
thedoor:-
"You willneed, afteryour journey,to refreshyourself
bymakingyour toilet. I trustyou will find allyou wish.
Whenyouareready,comeintotheother room, whereyou
will find your supper prepared."
Having then reached my normal state, I discovered that
I was half famished with hunger; so making a hasty
toilet, I went into the other room.
I found supper already laid out. My host, who stood

will, I trust, excuse methat Idonot joinyou;butIhave
Onepassage of it, at least, gave me a thrill of pleasure.
travelling on my part for some time to come; but I am
instructions in all matters."
of old Tokay, of whichI had two glasses, was mysupper.
Ihad experienced.
acigar which he offered me, at the same time excusing
physiognomy.
His face was a strong a very strong-aquiline, with
roundthetemplesbut profusely elsewhere. His eyebrows
withbushyhair that seemed tocurlin its ownprofusion.
Themouth, so farasIcouldseeitunder theheavymous

sharp white teeth; these protruded over the lips, whose
one of extraordinarypallor.
I could not but notice that they were rather coarse-
feeling of nausea came over me, which, do what I would,
Icouldnotconceal. The Count, evidently noticing it, drew
downagainonhisownsideofthefireplace.Wewereboth
sawthefirstdimstreakofthecomingdawn. There seemed
heard as if fromdownbelow inthevalleythe howling of
"Listento them-the children of the night. What music
they make!" Seeing, I suppose, some expression in my
"But you must be tired. Your bedroom is all ready,
well!" With acourteous bow, he opened for me himself
room..
..
I am all in a sea of wonders. I doubt; I fear; I think
Godkeep me, if only forthe sake of thosedear to me!

7May.It is again early morning, but I have rested
dressedmyself I wentintotheroom where wehadsupped,
by the pot being placed on the hearth. There was a card
onthetable, on which was written:-
"I have to be absent for a while. Do not wait for me.-
Ihad finishedbutIcouldnot find one. There are certainly
odd deficiencies in the house, considering the extraordi-
nary evidences of wealth which are round me. The table
of fabulous value when they were made, for they are
centuries old, though in excellent order. I saw something
like them in Hampton Court, but there they were worn
is there amirror. There is not even a toilet glass on my
bag before I could either shave or brush my hair. I have
castle except the howling of wolves. Some time after I
had finished my meal-I do not know whether to call it
when I had it-I looked about for something to read, for
Idid not liketo go about the castle until I had asked the
Count's permission. There was absolutely nothing in the
room, book, newspaper, or even writing materials; so I
brary. Thedooropposite mine Itried,but foundit locked.
Inthe library I found, to mygreat delight, a vast num-
papers, though none of them were of very recent date.
Thebooks were of the most varied kind-history, geog

howgladdenedmyheartto see it-the Law List.
hoped that I had had agood night's rest. Then he went
on:-
"I amgladyou foundyourwayinhere, for I am sure
I long to go through the crowded streets of your mighty
makes itwhat itis.Butalas!asyet I only knowyour ton-
guethroughbooks. Toyou, myfriend, Ilook that I know
itto speak."
thoroughly!" Hebowedgravely.
estimate, but yet I fear that I am but a little way on
thewords,butyet Iknownothowto speakthem."
"Indeed," I said,"you speak excellently."
I am noble; I am boyar; the common people know me,
stopsif he sees me,orpauseinhisspeaking ifhe hearmy
that I would be master still or atleast that none other

shouldbemasterofme.Youcometomenotaloneasagent
of my friend Peter Hawkins, of Exeter, to tell me all
about my new estate in London. You shall, I trust, rest
herewith me awhile, so that by our talking I may learn
Imake error, even of the smallest, in my speaking. I am
sorry that I had to be away so long to-day; butyou will,
asked if I might come into that room when I chose. He
where thedoors are locked, where of course you will not
wish to go. There is reason that all things are as they
me ofyour experiences already,you know something of
happened to me orcome withinmy notice.Sometimes he
sheeredoffthesubject, orturnedtheconversationbypre-
flames. He then explained to me that it was commonly
believedthat onacertainnight of theyear-last night, in
fact, whenall evil spirits are supposedto have unchecked
hasbeenconcealed. "That treasure has been hidden," he
wenton,"intheregionthroughwhichyoucame lastnight,

Turk. Why, thereis hardlya foot of soil inallthis region
that has not been enriched by the blood of men, patriots
or invaders. Inolddays there were stirring times, when
the rocks above the passes, that they might sweep de-
ever there was had been sheltered in the friendly soil."
discovered, whenthere is a sure indexto itifmenwillbut
marked the place of the flame would notknow where to
look indaylight even for his own work. Even you would
not, I dare be sworn, be ableto find these places again?"
the dead where even to look for them." Then we drifted
into other matters.
for my remissness, I went into my own room to get the
papers from my bag. Whilst Iwas placing them in order
thedark. The lamps were also lit inthe study or library,

subject of the neighbourhood, for he evidently at the end
"Well, but, my friend, is it not needful that I should?
willbe in Exeter, miles away, probably working at papers
of the law with my other friend, Peter Hawkins. So!"
We went thoroughly into the business of the purchase
of the estate at Purfleet. When I had told him the facts
writtena letter with them readytopostto Mr. Hawkins,
place. I read to him the notes which I had made at the
"At Purfleet, on a by-road, I came across just such a
dilapidated notice that the place was for sale. It is sur-
eaten with rust.
"The estate is called Carfax, no doubt a corruption of
the old Quatre Face, as the house is four-sided, agreeing
with the cardinal points of the compass. Itcontains in all
sometwentyacres, quitesurroundedbythe solid stonewall
orsmall lake, evidently fed by some springs, as the water
mediæval times, for one part is of stone immensely thick,
chapelorchurch. Icould not enter it, as I had not thekey
ofthedoor leadingtoit from thehouse,butIhavetaken

with my kodak views of it from various points. The
must be very great. There are but few houses close at
ever, visible from the grounds.".
When I had finished, he said:-
how few days go to make up a century. I rejoice also
nobles love not to think that our bones may lie amongst
the common dead. I seek not gaiety nor mirth, not the
overthedead, is notattunedtomirth. Moreover,the walls
be alone with my thoughts when I may." Somehow his
saturnine.
thatmaphadbeenmuchused. On looking atit I foundin
festly where his new estate was situated; the other two
turned. "Aha!" he said; "still at your books? Good! But
you must not work always. Come; I am informed that

the table. The Count again excused himself, as he had
dinedout onhisbeingaway fromhome. Buthe satas on
ablesubject, hourafterhour. I feltthat itwasgettingvery
obligation to meet my host's wishes in every way. I was
not sleepy, as the long sleep yesterday had fortified me;
but Icould not help experiencing that chill which comes
over one at the coming of the dawn, which is like, in its
way, the turn of the tide. They say that people who are
ofacockcomingupwithpreternatural shrillness through
said:-
"Why, there isthemorningagain! Howremiss I am to
letyoustayupsolong.Youmustmakeyour conversation
with acourtly bow,hequickly left me.
there was little to notice; my window opened into the
courtyard, allIcouldseewas thewarm grey of quicken-
of thisday.
wasgettingtoodiffuse;butnowI amgladthat Iwent into
Iweresafeoutofit, orthat I had never come. Itmaybe
bearit,butthereis noone. I haveonlythe Count to speak

riotwith me. If it does I amlost. Letmesayatoncehow
theCount'svoicesayingto me,"Good-morning." I started,
for it amazed methatIhad notseenhim, sincethe reflec-
tion of the glass covered the whole room behind me. In
starting I had cut myself slightly, butdid not notice itat
turned to theglass again to see how I had beenmistaken.
no reflection of him in the mirror! The whole room be-
thatvague feeling of uneasiness which I always hadwhen
laiddowntherazor, turning asIdid sohalf round to look
for some sticking plaster. When the Count saw my face,
quicklythat I could hardly believethat it was ever there.
"Take care," he said, "take care howyou cutyourself.
wretched thing that has done the mischief. It is a foul
pieces on the stones of the courtyard far below. Then he
see how I am to shave, unless in my watch-case or the
bottom of the shaving-pot, which is fortunately of metal.

When I went into thedining-room, breakfast was pre-
AfterbreakfastIdidalittleexploringinthecastle. Iwent
there was every opportunity of seeing it. The castle is on
the very edge of aterrible precipice.Astone falling from
tree tops, with occasionally a deep rift where there is a
wind indeepgorges through the forests.
But I am not inheart to describe beauty, for when I
had seen the view I explored further; doors, doors, doors
exit.

:

CHAPTER III
WHEN I foundthatIwasaprisonerasortof wild feeling
but after a little the conviction of my helplessness over-
powered all other feelings. When I lookbackafter a few
hours I think I must have been mad for the time, for I
behavedmuchasa rat does inatrap. When, however, the
convictionhad cometo me that I was helpless I sat down
sion.Ofonethingonlyam Icertain;thatitis nousemak-
ingmy ideas known to the Count. He knows well that I
doubtless his own motives for it, he would only deceive
being deceived, likeababy,bymyown fears, or else I am
shall need, all mybrains to get through.
I had hardly come to this conclusion when I heard the
turned. He did not come at once to the library, so I went
t This was odd, but only confirmed what I had all along
laterIsawhimthroughthe chinkofthehinges of thedoor
laying the table in the dining-room, I was assured of it;
for if he does himself all these menial offices, surely it is
proof that there is no one else todo them. This gave me

a fright, for if there is no oneelse inthe castle, it must
have been the Count himself who was the driver of the
coachthatbrought me here. This is aterriblethought; for
of the garlic, ofthe wildrose,ofthemountain ash?Bless
touchit. ItisoddthatathingwhichIhavebeentaught to
thingintheessenceofthethingitself,orthatit isamed-
self, ifI turnthe conversationthat way. Imust be very
careful,however, not to awakehis suspicion.
Midnight. I have had a long talk with the Count. I
warmeduptothesubjectwonderfully.Inhis speaking of
hehadbeenpresent at them all. This he afterwards ex-
name ishis own pride, that their glory ishis glory, that
theirfateishis fate. Whenever he spoke of hishouse he
kingspeaking. Iwish Icouldputdownallhesaidexactly
ashesaid it, forto meitwas most fascinating. It seemed
tohavein itawhole historyofthecountry. He grew ex-
strength. One thing he said which I shall put down as
race:-

"We Szekelys have a right to beproud, for inourveins
serkers displayed to such fell intent on the seaboards of
thought that the were wolves themselves had come. Here,
too, whentheycame,they foundthe Huns, whose warlike
furyhad swepttheearth likea living flame, tillthedying
witches, who, expelled from Scythia had mated with the
devils in the desert. Fools, fools! What devil or what
witch was ever so great as Attila, whosebloodis inthese
veins?" Hehelduphisarms. "Is itawonderthat we were
a conquering race; that we were proud; that when the
Magyar, the Lombard, the Avar, the Bulgar, or the Turk
he reached the frontier; that the Honfoglalas was com-
ward, the Szekelys were claimed as kindred by the vic-
the 'bloody sword,' or at its warlike call flocked quicker to
shameof my nation,the shame of Cassova, whenthe flags
Crescent? Who was it but one of my own race who as
own unworthy brother, when he had fallen, sold his peo-

though he had to come alone from the bloody field where
his troops were being slaughtered, since he knew that he
alonecouldultimatelytriumph! They saidthat he thought
conduct it? Again, when, after the battle of Mohács, we
were amongsttheirleaders, forour spirit would not brook
warlikedays areover. Bloodistoopreciousathinginthese
races are as atale that is told."
bed. (Mem., this diary seems horribly like the beginning
at cockcrow or like the ghost of Hamlet's father.)
12May. Letme beginwith facts-bare, meagre facts,
nodoubt. I mustnotconfusethem with experiences which
willhavetorest on myownobservation, or mymemory of
them. Last evening when the Count came from his room
thedoingof certainkinds of business. I hadspent the day
pied, wentover some of the matters Ihadbeen examined
in at Lincoln's Inn. There was a certain method in the
Count's inquiries, so I shall try to put them down in
sequence; the knowledge may somehow or some time be
useful to me.
solicitors or more. I told him hemight have adozen if he
tate against his interest. He seemed thoroughly to under

tor. I askedhimtoexplainmore fully, sothat I might not
Hawkins, fromunder the shadow ofyour beautiful cathe-
dral at Exeter, which is far from London, buys for me
through your good self my place at London. Good! Now
that Ihave soughttheservices of one so faroff from Lon-
doninsteadofsomeoneresidentthere, that mymotivewas
that no local interest might be served save my wish only;
purpose of himself or friend to serve, I went thus afield
to seek my agent, whose labours should be only to my
interest. Now, suppose I, who have much of affairs, wish
to shipgoods, say, to Newcastle, orDurham, or Harwich,
orDover, might itnotbethatitcould withmoreeasebe
certainly itwouldbemosteasy, but that we solicitors had
asystem of agency one for the other, so that local work
further trouble.
"But," said he,"I could be at liberty to direct myself.
Is it not so?"
of business, who do not like the whole of their affairs to
butby forethought could be guarded against. I explained
tainly left me under the impression that he would have
made a wonderful solicitor, for there was nothing that he

Whenhehadsatisfiedhimself onthesepoints ofwhichhe
"Haveyou written sinceyour first letter to our friend
"Then write now, my young friend," he said, laying a
with me untilamonth fromnow."
"Do you wish me to stay so long?" I asked, for my
heartgrewcoldatthethought.
"I desire it much; nay, I will take no refusal. When
yourmaster, employer, whatyou will, engaged that some-
oneshouldcomeonhisbehalf, itwas understoodthatmy
needs only were to beconsulted. I have not stinted. Is it
notso?"
Icouldhave no choice. The Count saw his victory in my
lessway:-
"I pray you, my good young friend, that you will not
will doubtless please your friends to know that you are
lyingoverthe redunderlip, I understoodas well as if he
had spokenthat I shouldbecarefulwhat I wrote, for he

wouldbe able to read it. So I determined to write only
formal notes now, but to write fully to Mr. Hawkins in
Ihad written my two letters I sat quiet, reading a book
whilstthe Countwroteseveralnotes, referringashe wrote
themto somebooks onhistable. Thenhetook up my two
face down on the table. I felt no compunction in doing
myself in every way I could.
One of theletters was directed to Samuel F. Billington,
"I trust you will forgive me, but I have much work to
doinprivatethisevening.Youwill,Ihope, findall things
pause said:-
"Let me adviseyou, mydearyoung friend-nay, let me
warn you with all seriousness, that shouldyou leave these
there are bad dreams for those who sleep unwisely. Be
warned! Should sleep now or ever overcome you, or be
like to do, then haste to your own chamber or to these
rooms, for your rest will then be safe. But if you be not
careful inthis respect, then"-He finishedhis speech in a
were washing them. I quite understood; my only doubt

seemed closing around me.
Later. I endorse the last words written, but this time
there is no doubt in question. I shall not fear to sleep in
thehead of mybed-I imagine that my rest is thus freer
WhenheleftmeIwenttomy room. Afteralittlewhile,
stair to where I could look out towards the South. There
sible though it was to me, as compared with the narrow
darkness of the courtyard. Looking out of this, I felt that
fresh air, though it were of the night. I am beginning to
feelthis nocturnalexistencetell onme. Itisdestroyingmy
ofhorrible imaginings.Godknows that thereisground for
my terrible fear inthis accursed place! I looked out over
gorges of velvety blackness. The mere beauty seemed to
my left, where I imagined, from the order of the rooms,
that the windows of the Count's own room would look
fully out.
What I saw was the Count's head coming out fromthe
somewhat amused, for it iswonderful how small amatter

begin to crawl down the castle wall over that dreadful
abyss, face down withhiscloak spreadingoutaround him
like great wings. At first I could not believe my eyes. I
thought it was some trick of the moonlight, some weird
thestones, wornclearofthemortarbythestressofyears,
downwardswithconsiderablespeed,justasalizard moves
alongawall.
:
ribleplace overpowering me; I amin fear-in awful fear
withterrors that Idarenotthinkof....
15May. OncemorehaveIseentheCountgooutinhis
lizard fashion. He moved downwards in asidelong way,
triedall thedoors. They werealllocked, asIhadexpected,
thestonestairs to thehall where I hadentered originally.
keywas gone! That key must be inthe Count's room; I
must watch should his door be unlocked, so that I may
thatopenedfromthem. Oneortwosmallrooms near the
hall were open, but there was nothing to see in them ex-

last, however, I found onedoor atthetop ofthe stairway
which, though it seemed to be locked, gave a little under
itback so that Icouldenter. I was now inawingof the
storey lowerdown. Fromthewindows Icould seethatthe
suite of rooms lay along to the south of the castle, the
On the latter side, as well as to the former, there was a
great precipice. The castle was built on the corner of a
great rock, so that on three sides itwasquite impregnable,
comfort, impossible to apositionwhichhadtobeguarded,
rising far away, great jagged mountain fastnesses, rising
peak on peak, the sheer rock studded with mountain ash
the castle occupied by the ladies in bygonedays, for the
even colours, whilst it softened the wealth of dust which
me, for there was a dread loneliness in the place which
little to school my nerves, I found a soit quietude come
overme. Here I am, sitting at a little oaktable where in 1
old times possibly some fair lady sat to pen, with much

ا. since I closed it last. It is nineteenth century up-to-date
safety arethings ofthepast. Whilst I liveonhere there is
but one thing to hope for, that I may not go mad, if, in-
maddening tothinkthat of allthe foulthings that lurk in
this hateful place the Count is the least dreadful to me;
fulGod! Letmebecalm, for outof that waylies madness
indeed. I begin to get new lights on certain things which
have puzzled me. Up to now I never quite knew what
"Mytablets! quick, mytablets!
'Tis meet that I put it down," etc.,
for now, feeling as though my own brain wereunhinged
orasif theshockhadcomewhichmustend initsundoing,
I turn to my diary for repose. The habit of entering ac-
curately must help to soothe me.
The Count's mysterious warning frightened me at the
time; it frightens me more now when I thinkof it, for in
futurehehas afearfulholduponme. I shall feartodoubt
whathemay say!
Count'swarningcameintomymind,butItooka pleasure
it the obstinacy which sleep brings as outrider. The soft
sense of freedom which refreshed me. I determined notto
return to-night to the gloom-haunted rooms, but to sleep
liveswhilst theirgentlebreasts were sad fortheir menfolk
away in the midst of remorseless wars. I drew a great

couch out of its place near the corner, so that as I lay, I
for sleep. I suppose I must have fallen asleep; I hope so,
but I fear, for all that followed was startlingly real-so
realthatnow sitting here inthebroad, fullsunlight ofthe
Ihaddisturbedthelongaccumulationofdust.Inthemoon-
light opposite me werethreeyoung women, ladies by their
dreaming when I sawthem, for, thoughthe moonlight was
behind them, they threw no shadow on the floor. They
eyes, that seemed to be almost red when contrasted with
to know it in connection with some dreamy fear, but I
could not recollectatthe moment how or where. Allthree
ruby of their voluptuous lips. There was something about
timesomedeadlyfear.Ifeltinmyheartawicked,burning
desire that they would kiss me with those red lips. It is
not good to notethisdown;lest someday it should meet
such a silvery, musical laugh, but as hard as though the
sound never could have come through the softness of
urged her on. One said:-
righttobegin." The other added:-

overmetillI couldfeelthemovement ofher breathupon
same tingling through the nerves as her voice, but with a
bitter underlying the sweet, a bitter offensiveness, as one
smells inblood.
sawperfectlyunderthelashes. Thegirlwentonherknees,
proaches nearer-nearer. I could feel the soft, shivering
touch ofthelips onthe super-sensitive skin of my throat,
waited-waited with beating heart.
as quick as lightning. I was conscious of the presence of
fury. As my eyes opened involuntarily I saw his strong
cheeks blazing with passion. But the Count! Never did
pit.Hiseyeswerepositivelyblazing. Theredlight in them
was lurid, as iftheflames ofhell-fireblazedbehind them.
like drawn wires; the thick eyebrows that met over the

nose now seemed like a heaving bar of white-hot metal.
beatingthemback; itwas thesame imperious gesture that
I had seen used to the wolves. In a voice which, though
casteyesonhimwhen Ihadforbidden it?Back, I tellyou
with him, or you'll have to deal with me." The fair girl,
"You yourself never loved; you never love!" On this
me faint to hear; it seemed like the pleasure of fiends.
Then the Count turned, after looking at my face atten-
past. Is it not so? Well, now I promise you that when I
amdonewithhimyoushallkisshimatyour will. Nowgo!
go! I must awakenhim, for there isworktobedone."
"Are we to have nothing to-night?" said one of them,
with a low laugh, as she pointed to the bag which he had
wail, as of a half-smothered child. The women closed
round, whilst I was aghast with horror; but as I looked
mewithoutmynoticing. They simply seemed to fade into
dow, for I could seeoutside the dim, shadowy forms for
amomentbefore they entirely faded away.
scious.

CHAPTER IV
I AWOKE in my own bed. If it be that Ihad notdreamt,
the Count must have carried me here. I tried to satisfy
tionable result. To be sure, there were certain small evi-
things arenoproof, fortheymayhavebeenevidencesthat
other, I had certainly beenmuch upset. I must watch for
proof. Of one thing I am glad: if it was that the Count
hurried in his task, for my pockets are intact. I am sure
this diary would have been a mystery to him which he
would not have brooked. He would have taken or de-
stroyedit. As I look round this room, although it hasbeen
who were-who are waiting to suck my blood.
18May. I have beendown to lookatthat room again
indaylight, for I must know the truth. When I gotto the
doorway at the top of the stairs I found it closed. It had
been so forcibly driven against the jamb that part of the
woodwork was splintered. Icould seethat thebolt of the
lockhad not been shot, butthe door is fastened from the
mise.
19May. I amsurelyinthetoils. Last night the Count
asked me in the suavest tones to write three letters, one

was starting on the next morning from the time of the
at Bistritz. I would fain have rebelled, but feltthat in the
present state of things it would be madness to quarrel
openly with the Count whilst I am so absolutely in his
mywritingnowwould ensure easeofmindto my friends;
of myprolonging my stay,that to opposehim would have
beentocreatenew suspicion. I therefore pretendedto fall
the third June 29."
book. They are peculiar to this part of the world, though
allied to the ordinarygipsies allthe world over. There are
arealmost outsidealllaw. Theyattachthemselves as arule

tohavethemposted. Ihavealready spokenthem through
...
simply ask Mr. Hawkinstocommunicatewithher. To her
I have explained my situation, but without the horrors
herto death were I to exposemyhearttoher. Should the
letters not carry, then the Count shall not yet know my
secret or theextent of myknowledge.
...
Ihave giventheletters; Ithrewthemthrough thebars
tenhere....
inhis smoothest voice as he opened two letters;-
know notwhencetheycome, I shall, ofcourse, takecare.
to my friend Peter Hawkins; the other"-here he caught
lope in the flame of the lamp till they were consumed.
Then he went on:-
"The letter to Hawkins that I shall, of course, send
on, since it isyours. Your letters are sacred to me. Your
pardon, my friend,that unknowingly Idid breakthe seal.
Will you not cover it again?" He held out the letter to

When he went out of the room I could hear thekey turn
door was locked.
to the room, his coming awakened me, for I had gone to
said:-
"So, my friend,you aretired? Get to bed. There is the
surest rest. I may not have the pleasure to talk to-night,
to say, slept withoutdreaming. Despair has it own calms.
31May. Thismorningwhen I woke I thought Iwould
againashock!
letterofcredit, in factallthatmightbeuseful to mewere
myclothes.
This lookedlikesome newschemeofvillainy.
...
17June. This morning, as Iwassittingonthe edge of
mybedcudgellingmybrains,Iheardwithoutacracking of
rocky path beyond the courtyard. With joy I hurried to
head of eachpair a Slovak, with his wide hat, great nail-

as I thought that way might be opened for them. Again
ashock: mydoor was fastened onthe outside.
ingtomywindow, said something, at which they laughed.
Henceforth no effort of mine, no piteous cry or agonised
entreaty, would make them even look at me. They reso-
lutely turned away. The leiter-wagons contained great,
in one corner of the yard, the Slovaks were given some
went each to hishorse'shead. Shortly afterwards, I heard
24 June, before morning. Last night the Count left
thewindow,whichopened south. Ithought Iwould watch
for the Count, for there is something going on. The
villainy.
hour, when I saw something coming out of the Count's
he had on the suit of clothes which I had worn whilst
bagwhichIhadseenthewomentakeaway. Therecouldbe
ishis new scheme of evil: thathe will allow others to see
me, as they think, sothat hemaybothleaveevidencethat

Ihavebeenseeninthetowns or villages posting my own
the localpeople beattributed to me.
I am shut up here, a veritable prisoner, but without that
consolation.
notice that there were some quaint little specks floating
in the rays of the moonlight. They were like the tiniest
clusters ina nebulous sort of way. I watched them with a
tion, so that I could enjoy more fully the aërial gambol-
ling.
Somethingmade me start up, alow,piteous howling of
dogs somewhere farbelow inthevalley, which was hidden
the floatingmotes ofdusttotake new shapes tothe sound
to awake to some call of my instincts; nay, my very soul
seemed to quiver as they went by me into the mass of
becoming gradually materialised from the moonbeams,
were those of the three ghostly women to whom I was
burning brightly.
Whenacouple of hours had passed I heard something
stirring in the Count's room, something like a sharp wail
ful silence, which chilled me. With a beatingheart, I tried

As I sat I heardasoundinthecourtyardwithout-the
throwing it up, peered out between the bars. There, in-
saw my face at the window she threw herself forward,
"Monster, give me my child!"
Icould not seeher, I couldhearthebeating ofher naked
Somewhere high overhead, probably on the tower, I
heardthe voice of the Countcallinginhisharsh, metallic
passed apack ofthem poured, like apent-up dam when
thewolveswasbut short. Beforelongtheystreamed away
singly, lickingtheirlips.
Icouldnotpityher, for I knew now what hadbecome
morning that it struckthe top ofthegreatgateway oppo-
site my window, the high spot which it touched seemed
to meas if the dove from the arkhad lightedthere. My
fear fell from me as if it had been a vaporous garment
whichdissolvedinthewarmth. I musttakeactionof some

sortwhilstthecourage ofthedayisuponme. Lastnight
oneofmypost-dated letterswenttopost,the firstofthat
fatal series which is to blot out the very traces of my
existence from the earth.
Let me notthinkof it. Action!
It has always been at night-time that I have been
it be that he sleeps when others wake, that he may be
awake whilst they sleep? If I could only get into his
room! But there is no possible way. The door is always
locked, noway forme.
Yes, there is away, if one dares to take it. Where his
seenhim myself crawl fromhis window. Why should not
desperate, but my need ismoredesperate still. I shall risk
tome.Godhelp me inmytask! Good-bye, Mina, if I fail;
ing me, have come safely back to this room. I must put
down everydetail in order. Iwent whilst my couragewas
got outside on the narrow ledge of stone which runs
tured out on the desperate way. I looked down once, so
as to make surethat a suddenglimpse of the awful depth
wouldnotovercome me, but after that kept my eyes away
having regardtothe opportunities available. I did not feel

foremost in through the window. Then I looked around
discovery. The roomwas empty! Itwas barely furnished
with odd things, which seemed to have never been used;
the furniturewassomethingthesame styleas that inthe
where. The onlything I found was agreat heap of gold
coveredwith a film of dust, asthough ithadlainlong in
Atonecorneroftheroomwas aheavydoor. I tried it,
for, since Icouldnot findthekeyoftheroom or thekey
oftheouterdoor, whichwasthemainobjectof mysearch,
Imustmakefurtherexamination, orall my efforts would
to a circular stairway, which went steeply down. I de-
scended, minding carefully where I went, for the stairs
were dark, being only lit by loopholes in the heavy
masonry. At thebottomtherewas adark, tunnel-likepas-
sage, through which came a deathly, sickly odour, the
odour of old earth newly turned. As I went through the
steps leading to vaults, but theground had recently been
further outlet, but there was none. Then I went over
wentdownevenintothevaults, wherethedim light strug-
gled, although todo so was adread to my very soul. Into
two of these I went, but saw nothing except fragments

made adiscovery.
There, in one of the great boxes, of which there were
fifty in all, on apile of newly dug earth, lay the Count!
Hewas either dead or asleep, I could not say which-for
all their pallor; the lips were as red as ever. But there
wasnosignof movement,nopulse, nobreath, nobeating
oflife, butinvain. Hecould nothavelaintherelong, for
theearthysmellwouldhavepassedawayinafewhours.
By the side of the box was its cover, pierced with holes
them, deadthoughthey were, suchalook of hate, though
unconscious of me or my presence, that I fled from the
crawled again up the castle wall. Regaining my room, I
...
Count has taken steps to prove that it was genuine, for
inmyclothes. As hewentdownthewall, lizard fashion, I
wished I had a gun or some lethal weapon, that I might
destroy him; but I fear that no weapon wrought alone
waittoseehimreturn, forIfearedtoseethoseweirdsis-
asleep.
I was awakened by the Count, who looked at me as
"To-morrow, my friend, we must part. You return to 1
has beendespatched; to-morrow I shall not be here, but
all shall be ready foryour journey. In the morning come
also come some Slovaks. When they have gone, my car-

Pass to meet the diligence from Bukovinato Bistritz. But
I am in hopes that I shall see more of you at Castle
4 word to write it in connection with such a monster, so
"Why may I not go to-night?"
on amission."
once." He smiled, such a soft, smooth, diabolical smile
that I knew there was some trick behind his smoothness.
He said:-
time."
whichmademe rub myeyes, it seemed so real:-
"You English have a saying which is close to my heart,
for its spirit is that which rules our boyars: 'Welcome the
coming; speedthe partingguest.' Come withme, mydear
you so suddenly desireit. Come!" With a stately gravity,
the hall. Suddenly he stopped.
"Hark!"
just asthemusic of agreat orchestra seems to leap under
thebâton oftheconductor.After apauseof a moment, he
proceeded, in his stately way, to the door, drew back the
todrawit open.
To my intense astonishment Isawthat it was unlocked.
Suspiciously, I looked all round, but could see no key of

came in through the opening door. I knew then that to
struggle at the moment against the Count was useless.
the Count's body stood inthe gap. Suddenly it struck me
Therewasadiabolicalwickedness intheideagreat enough
pointment. With one sweep of his powerful arm, the
places.
ute or two I went to my own room. The last I saw of
inhellmightbe proud of.
thought I heard a whispering at my door. I went to it
thevoice ofthe Count:-
"Back, back, to your own place! Your time is not yet
come. Wait! Have patience! To-night is mine. To-morrow
night isyours!" There was a low, sweet ripple of laughter,
three terriblewomenlicking their lips. As I appeared they
It is then so near the end? To-morrow! to-morrow!
30 June, morning. These may bethe last words I ever
when I woke threw myself on myknees, for I determined
that if Death came he should find me ready.

the morning had come. Then came the welcome cock-
But the door would not move. Despair seized me. I
itwas, it rattled initscasement. I could seetheboltshot.
Ithadbeen lockedafterI leftthe Count.
deathnow seemed the happier choice of evils. Without a
the wall, as before, into the Count's room. It was empty,
where, but theheapof gold remained. I went through the
thedarkpassagetotheoldchapel. I knewnowwellenough
whereto find the monster I sought.
The great boxwas inthe sameplace, close against the
wall, but the lid was laid on it, not fastened down, but
withthenails readyintheirplacestobehammeredhome.
Iknew I must reachthe body for the key, so I raisedthe
thingwhich filled my verysoulwith horror. There lay the
Count, but looking as if hisyouth had been half renewed.
ever, for on the lips were gouts of fresh blood, which
neath werebloated. It seemed as if the whole awful crea-
ture were simply gorged with blood. He lay like a filthy
leech, exhausted with his repletion. I shuddered as I bent
contact; but I had to search, or I was lost. The coming

tothosehorrid three. I felt alloverthebody, but nosign
Count. There was a mocking smile on the bloated face
which seemed todrive memad. This wasthebeing I was
turies to come he might, amongst its teeming millions,
widening circle of semi-demons tobatten onthehelpless.
The very thought drove me mad. A terrible desire came
uponmetoridtheworldof suchamonster. There was no
high, struck, withtheedgedownward, atthehateful face.
me,withalltheirblazeofbasiliskhorror. Thesightseemed
ridthingfrommysight. Thelastglimpse Ihadwasofthe
which wouldhavehelditsowninthe nethermosthell.
ing feeling growing over me. As I waited I heard in the
the Count had spoken were coming. With a last look
mined to rush out at the moment the door should be
ing back of theheavydoor. There must have been some

thedoortothewindingstairblew to with a shockthat set
open, I found that it was hopelessly fast. I was again a
closely.
heavily, doubtless the boxes, with their freight of earth.
Thereis a sound ofhammering; itis the boxbeing nailed
Iamaloneinthecastlewiththoseawful women. Faugh!
are devils ofthe Pit!
I shall not remain alone with them; I shall try to scale
findaway fromthisdreadfulplace.
nearest train! away from this cursed spot, from this
with earthly feet!

CHAPTER V
LetterfromMissMinaMurrayto Miss Lucy Westenra.
"9May.
"Mydearest Lucy,-
"Forgive my long delay in writing, but I have been
schoolmistress is sometimestrying. I am longingtobewith
buildourcastles in the air. I have been workingveryhard
When we are married I shallbe ableto be usefultoJona-
onthe typewriter, atwhich also I ampractisingveryhard.
keepingastenographicjournalofhistravels abroad. When
Iamwithyou I shall keep adiaryinthesame way. I don't
squeezed-in-a-corner diaries,butasort ofjournal which I
therewillbe muchofinterestto other people;butitis not
exercisebook. I shalltry to do what I seelady journalists
remember conversations. I am told that, with a little prac-
saidduringaday. However, we shall see. I willtellyou of

see them together. There is the ten o'clock bell ringing.
Good-bye.
"Yourloving
"MINA.
"Tellmeallthenewswhenyouwrite.Youhavenottold
Letter, Lucy Westenra toMinaMurray.
"17, Chatham Street,
"Wednesday.
"MydearestMina,-
"Imust sayyou taxmeveryunfairly with being abad
yourlastletterwasonlyyoursecond.Besides, Ihavenoth-
ing to tell you. There is really nothing to interest you.
waswith meatthelastPop. Someonehas evidentlybeen
telling tales. Thatwas Mr. Holmwood. Heoften comes to
awonderful powerhemusthaveoverhis patients.Hehas
acurious habit of looking one straight inthe face, as if
trying to readone's thoughts. Hetries this on verymuch
with me, but I flatter myself he has got a tough nut to
crack. I knowthatfrom myglass. Doyouevertry to read

LETTERS , ETC. 61
if you have nevertried it. He says that I affordhim acu-
not, as you know, take sufficient interest in dress to be
able todescribethe new fashions. Dress is a bore. That is
There, it is all out. Mina, we have told all our secrets to
eachothersincewewere children; we have slept together
now, though I have spoken, I would like to speak more.
Oh, Mina, couldn't you guess? I love him. I am blushing
asIwrite, for although I thinkheloves me, hehasnottold
meso in words. But oh, Mina, I lovehim; I love him; I
love him! There, that does me good. I wish I were with
you, dear, sittingbythe fireundressing,aswe used to sit;
I am writing this even toyou. I am afraid to stop, or I
tellmeallthatyouthinkaboutit.Mina, Imuststop.Good-
happiness.
"LUCY.
!
"P.S.-I need not tell you this is a secret. Good-night
again.
"L."
Letter, Lucy Westenrato MinaMurray.
1 "24May.
"Mydearest Mina,-
sympathy.
"Mydear, it neverrainsbutitpours. How truethe old
proverbs are. Here am I, who shallbe twenty in Septem-

truly sorry, for two of the poor fellows. Oh, Mina, I am
their very first day at home they did not get six at least.
about the three, butyou mustkeep it asecret, dear, from
because I would, if I were in your place, certainly tell
women, certainly their wives, to be quite as fair as they
as they should be. Well, mydear, number One came just
before lunch. I told you of him, Dr. John Seward, the
forehead. He was verycooloutwardly,but was nervous all
the same. He hadevidentlybeenschooling himself as to all
made me nearly scream. He spoke to me, Mina, very
straightforwardly. He told me how dear I was to him,
how unhappyhe wouldbe if I did not care for him, but

LETTERS, ETC. 63
duty to tell him that there was some one. I only toldhim
friend I must count him one of mybest. Oh, Mina dear,
sort of thing, but it isn't at all a happy thing when you
haveto seeapoor fellow,whomyou know loves you hon-
knowthat, no matter what he may sayatthe moment,you
arepassingquiteoutof his life. Mydear, I muststop here
atpresent, I feel so miserable, though I am so happy.
"Evening.
Well, mydear, number Two came after lunch. He is such
I sympathise with poor Desdemona when she had such a
Isupposethat we women are such cowards that we think
a girl love me. No, I don't, for there was Mr. Morris
yet My dear, I am somewhat previous. Mr. Quincey
does find a girl alone. No, he doesn't, for Arthur tried
shocked, he said such funny things. I am afraid, my dear,

hehastoinvent itall, foritfitsexactlyinto whatever else
jollyashecould,butIcould see allthe same thathewas
sweetly:-
"'Miss Lucy, Iknow I ain'tgoodenoughtoregulatethe
fixin's of yourlittleshoes,but Iguessifyou wait tillyou
womenwiththelampswhenyouquit. Won'tyoujusthitch
gether,drivingindoubleharness?'
itdidn't seem half so hard to refuse him as it did poor
Dr. Seward; so Isaid, as lightlyas Icould, that Idid not
harness at all yet. Thenhe said thathe had spoken in a
him, Iwould forgive him. He reallydidlook serious when
too-I know, Mina, you will think me a horrid flirt-
though I couldn'thelp feeling asort of exultation that he
Helooked so earnest overitthat I shallneveragainthink
becausehe is merry at times. I suppose he saw something
inmy face which checked him, for he suddenly stopped,
loved him forifIhadbeen free:-
not be here speaking to you as I am now if I did not be-

LETTERS , ETC. 65
trouble you a hair's breadth again, butwillbe, ifyou will
letme, averyfaithful friend.'
"Mydear Mina, whyaremenso noblewhenwewomen
are so little worthy of them? Here was I almost making
funof thisgreat-hearted,truegentlemen. Iburst intotears
-I am afraid, mydear, you willthinkthis avery sloppy
Imustnot sayit. Iamgladtosaythat, though I was cry-
toldhim out straight:-
"'Yes, there is some one I love, though hehas nottold
meyetthat he even loves me.' I was rightto speaktohim
"'That'smybravegirl.It'sbetterworthbeing late for a
girlintheworld. Don'tcry, mydear. If it's for me, I'm a
fellow doesn't know his happiness, well, he'd better look
for it soon, or he'll have todeal with me. Little girl, your
KingdomCome. Won'tyougivemeonekiss? It'llbesome-
know, ifyou like, for that othergood fellow-he must be
love him-hasn't spoken yet.' That quite won me, Mina,
looked down into my face-I am afraid I was blushing
verymuch-he said:-

out of the room without looking back, without atear or a
of girls about who would worship the verygroundhe trod
happy."
"Everyour loving
"Lucy,
"P.S.-Oh, about number Three-I needn't tell you of
number Three, need I? Besides, it was all so confused; it
seemed only amoment from his coming intothe room till
deserve it. Imustonlytryinthe futureto showthat I am
notungrateful toGod for all His goodness tome insend-
"Good-bye."
Dr. Seward's Diary.
(Kept in phonograph)
rest, sodiary instead. Sincemyrebuffofyesterday I have
asortofemptyfeeling; nothingintheworld seems ofsuf-
...
that theonlycure for this sort ofthing was work, I went
down amongst the patients. I picked out one who has af-
forded me a study of much interest. He is so quaint that
his mystery.
aview to making myself master of the facts of his hallu-
something of cruelty. I seemedto wishto keep him to the

LETTERS , ETC. 67
pointofhismadness athing which I avoid with the pa-
tients as I wouldthe mouthofhell.
pitofhell?) Omnia Romæ venalia sunt. Hell has its price!
valuable to trace it afterwards accurately, so I had better
commence to do so, therefore-
physical strength; morbidly excitable; periods of gloom,
ing influence endinamentally-accomplished finish; a pos-
as for themselves. What I think of on this point is, when
thecentrifugal; whenduty, acause, etc., is the fixedpoint,
Letter, Quincey P. Morristo Hon. Arthur Holmwood.
"25May.
"My dear Art,-
beatmy camp-fire to-morrow night? I have no hesitation
inaskingyou, as Iknow acertainladyisengaged toacer-
beoneother, our oldpal attheKorea, Jack Seward. He's

shallboth sweartoleaveyouathomeifyoudrinktoodeep
toacertainpairofeyes. Come!
"QUINCEYP. MORRIS."
Telegramfrom Arthur Holmwood to Quincey P. Morris.
"26May.
"Count me in every time. I bear messages which will
makebothyourearstingle.
"ART."

CHAPTER VI
MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL
24 July. Whitby.-Lucy met me at the station, looking
houseat the Crescent inwhich they have rooms. This is a
lovelyplace. The little river,theEsk, runs throughadeep
valley, which broadens out as it comes near the harbour.
Agreatviaduct runsacross,withhighpiers, throughwhich
unlessyouarenearenoughtoseedown. Thehousesof the
we see of Nuremberg. Right over the town isthe ruin of
isthe sceneofpartof"Marmion," wherethegirlwasbuilt
up inthe wall. It is a most noble ruin, of immense size,
thatawhiteladyis seeninone ofthewindows. Between it
whichis abig graveyard, all full of tombstones. This is to
mymindthe nicest spot in Whitby, for it lies right over
intothe sea. Itdescends so steeply over the harbour that
havebeendestroyed. Inoneplacepartofthe stonework of
There are walks, with seats beside them, through the

the talk of three oldmenwho are sitting beside me. They
The harbour lies below me, with, on the far side, one
outwards atthe endof it, inthe middle of which is alight-
house. A heavy sea-wall runs along outside of it. On the
there is a narrow opening into the harbour, which then
suddenly widens.
Itisniceathighwater; butwhenthetideisoutit shoals
there. Outsidetheharbouronthissidethere rises forabout
half a mile a great reef, the sharp edge of which runs
straight out from behind the south lighthouse. At the end
of it is a buoy with a bell, which swings in bad weather,
legend here thatwhenaship is lost bells are heard out at
way.
fought. He is, I am afraid, a very sceptical person, for
Ladyat the abbeyhe said very brusquely:-
"I wouldn't fash masel' about them, miss. Them things
beall woreout. Mind, Idon'tsaythatthey neverwas,but
Ido saythat theywasn't in mytime. They be all verywell
lookin' out to buy cheapjet would creed aught. I wonder
masel' who'd be bothered tellin' lies to them even the
newspapers, whichisfullof fool-talk." I thoughthewould
be a good person to learn interesting things from, so I
asked him if he would mind telling me something about

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL 71
thewhale-fishing intheolddays. Hewasjust settling him-
self to begin when the clock struck six, whereupon he
daughter doesn't like to be kept waitin' when the tea is
ready, forit takes metime to crammle aboonthegrees, for
by the clock."
as he could, downthe steps. The steps are a great feature
on the place. They lead from the town up to the church,
they must originally have had something to do with the
abbey. I shallgohometoo. Lucy went out visiting with her
Theywillbehomebythis.
inhis time a most dictatorial person. He will not admit
ment with his views. Lucy was looking sweetly pretty in
herwhite lawn frock; she has got abeautifulcolour since
she has been here. I noticed thatthe old men did not lose
down. Sheis so sweet witholdpeople; Ithink they allfell
off atonceinto asort of sermon. I musttry to remember

somethin'thattheydon'totherinclineto. Itmakes me fret-
fultothinko' them. Why, it's them that, notcontent with
simply tumblin' down with the weight o' the lies wrote on
them, 'Here liesthebody' or'Sacredtothememory' wrote
pinch of snuff about, much less sacred. Lies all of them,
aquare scowderment at the Day of Judgment when they
cometumblin' up intheirdeath-sarks, all jouped together
theway inwhichhelookedround fortheapprovalofhis
cronies that he was"showing off," so I put ina wordto
keephimgoing:-
tombstones are notallwrong?"
"Yabblins! There may be a poorish few not wrong,
savin' wheretheymake out thepeopletoogood; for there
befolkthatdothinkabalm-bowlbelikethesea,ifonly it
betheir own. Thewholethingbeonlylies.Now lookyou
garth." I nodded, for I thoughtit better to assent, though
the lie comes in. Why, there be scores of these lay-beds
thatbetoomasoldDun's'bacca-box on Fridaynight." He

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL 73
mygog! how couldtheybe otherwise? Look at that one,
read:-
"Edward Spencelagh,master mariner, murdered by pi-
cameback Mr. Swales went on:
"Who brought him home, I wonder, to hap him here!
body lay under! Why, I could name ye a dozen whose
wards-"or where the currents may have drifted them.
eyes, read the small-print of the lies from here. This
Braithwaite Lowrey-I knew his father, lost inthe Lively
the same seas in 1777; or John Paxton,drowned off Cape
'50. Do ye think that all these men will have to make a
rush to Whitby when the trumpet sounds? I have me
afight up on the ice inthe olddays, when we'dbe at one
by the light of the aurora borealis." This was evidently
croniesjoined inwithgusto.
"But," I said,"surelyyou are notquite correct, for you
start on the assumption that all the poor people, or their
spirits, willhavetotaketheir tombstones withthemon the
Day of Judgment. Doyou thinkthatwillbe really neces-
sary?"
that, miss!"
"Topleasetheirrelatives, I suppose."
"To please their relatives, you suppose!" This he said
withintense scorn. "How willitpleasuretheir relatives to
theplaceknows thattheybe lies?" He pointedto a stone
at our feet which had beenlaiddown as a slab, on which

theseatwas rested, closetotheedgeofthecliff."Readthe
downtome fromwhere Isat, but Lucywas moreopposite
thehope of aglorious resurrection,onJuly, 29, 1873, fall-
ing from the rocks at Kettleness, This tomb was erected
by his sorrowing mother to her dearly beloved son. 'He
severely.
"Yedon't see aught funny! Ha! ha! Butthat's because
ye don't gawm the sorrowin' mother was a hell-cat that
hated him because he was acrewk'd-a regular lamiter he
they had for scarin' the crows with. 'Twarn't for crows
ous resurrection, I've often heard him say masel' that he
hoped he'd go to hell, for his mother was so pious that
asks itto be took as evidence!"
Ididnotknow whattosay,butLucyturned theconver-
sationas she said,risingup:-
"Oh, whydidyoutell usofthis?Itismy favourite seat,
over the graveof asuicide."
Geordie gladsome tohave sotrim alass sittin' onhis lap.
fash about them as lies under ye, or that doesn' lie there
either! It'llbe time forye to be getting scart when ye see

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL 75
mejustalittleheart-sick, for I haven't heard from Jona-
The same day.Icameupherealone, for I am very sad.
nine. I seethe lights scatteredalloverthetown, sometimes
ley. To my leftthe view is cut offbyablackline of roof
theralongthequaythereis a SalvationArmymeeting ina
Dr. Seward'sDiary.
5 June. The case of Renfield grows more interesting
purpose. Iwish Icouldgetatwhatistheobjectofthe lat-
ter. He seems to havesome settled scheme of his own, but
what it is Ido not know. His redeeming quality is a love
that I sometimes imagine he is only abnormally cruel. His
pets areof odd sorts.Just nowhis hobby iscatching flies.
expostulate. To myastonishment, hedidnotbreakout into
a fury,as Iexpected,buttookthematterinsimple serious-

have three days? I shall clear them away." Of course, I
saidthat woulddo. Imustwatchhim.
hasgot severalverybig fellows inabox. Hekeeps feeding
ingsensiblydiminished, althoughhehasusedhalfhisfood
inattractingmore flies from outsideto his room.
1July.--His spiders are now becoming as great a nui-
ofthem. He lookedverysadatthis, so Isaidthathemust
clear out some of them, at all events. He cheerfully
for reduction. He disgustedmemuchwhile with him, for
when a horrid blow-fly, bloated with some carrion food,
it. I scolded him for it, butheargued quietly that it was
of one. Imustwatchhowhegetsridofhisspiders. Hehas
evidently somedeepproblem inhismind, for he keeps a
little note-book in which he is alwaysjottingdown some-
thing. Whole pages of itare filledwith masses of figures,
totals added inbatches again, as though he were"focus-
sing" some account,as the auditorsput it.
mentary idea in mymind is growing. It will be awhole
havetogivethewalltoyourconsciousbrother. Ikeptaway
from my friend for a few days, so that I might notice if
the spiders have diminished. Those thatdo remain, how-

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL 77
ever, are well fed,forhestillbrings inthe flies bytempt-
ingthem with his food.
19 July. We are progressing. My friend has now a
wasnotunprepared forthis request, for I hadnoticedhow
notcarethathispretty familyof tame sparrows shouldbe
"Oh, yes, I would like acat! I only asked for a kitten
lestyoushould refuse me acat. No onewouldrefuseme a
present I feareditwouldnotbepossible,butthat Iwould
howitwillworkout;thenI shallknow more.
inacorner brooding. When Icameinhethrew himself on
that his salvationdepended upon it. I was firm, however,
cornerwhereIhadfoundhim. Ishallseehiminthemorn-
ingearly.
20 July. VisitedRenfieldveryearly,beforethe attend-

He was spreading out his sugar, which he had saved, in
him where they were. He replied, without turning round,
that they had all flown away. There were a few feathers
of feathers. "My belief is, doctor," he said, "that he has
11 p. m. I gave Renfield a strong opiate to-night,
booktolookatit. Thethought that has beenbuzzingabout
would almost be worth while to complete the experiment.
Itmightbedoneif there were onlyasufficient cause. Men
aspect theknowledge of the brain? Had I even the secret
ology or Ferrier's brain-knowledge would be as nothing.
If only there were a sufficient cause! I must notthinktoo
much of this, or I may be tempted; a good cause might
tionalbrain, congenitally?

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL 79
begin a new record with eachday of our lives?
To meit seems onlyyesterday that my whole life ended
If I only could haveas strong acause as mypoor mad
friend there a good, unselfish cause to make me work-
thatwould be indeedhappiness.
MinaMurray's Journal.
cerned; but yesterday dear Mr. Hawkins, who is always
so kind, sent me a letter from him. I had written asking
says that he is just starting for home. That is not like
Then, too, Lucy, although sheissowell,has latelytaken to
her old habit of walking in her sleep. Her mother has
lock thedoor of our room every night. Mrs. Westenra has

both ends meet. Mr. Holmwood he is the Hon. Arthur
Holmwood, only son of Lord Godalming is coming up
Whitby. Idaresayitisthewaitingwhichdisturbsher; she
willbeallrightwhenhearrives.
uneasyabouthim,though whyI should I donotknow; but
Idowishthathewouldwrite, ifitwereonlya single line.
byhermovingabouttheroom. Fortunately, theweather is
the perpetually being wakened is beginning to tell on me,
Lucy'shealthkeepsup. Mr. Holmwoodhasbeen suddenly
called toRing to seehis father, who has been taken seri-
ouslyill. Lucyfretsatthepostponementofseeinghim, but
which shehad.Iprayitwillalllast.
Oh, I dohopeheisnotill. Hesurelywould have written.
Ilookatthatlastletterofhis,butsomehowitdoes notsat-
Thereis nomistakeofthat. Lucyhas notwalkedmuch in
locked, goes about the room searching for the key.
penseisgettingdreadful.If I onlyknew whereto writeto

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL 81
or where to go to, I should feel easier; but no one has
the fishermensaythat we areinforastorm. Imusttry to
Kettleness. Everything is grey-except the green grass,
which seems like emerald amongst it; grey earthy rock;
a "brool" over the sea that sounds like some presage of
bour,bendingtothescuppers.HerecomesoldMr. Swales.
tleway:-
"I'mafraid, mydeary,that Imusthaveshockedyouby
it, so that I'dcheerupmyownheartabit. But, Lord love
ye, miss, I ain't afraid ofdyin', not a bit; only I don't

habit of caffin' about itallat once; thechafts will wag as
deary!"-for he saw that I was crying-"if he should
wonderin'. Maybeit's inthatwindoutoverthe seathat's
hearts. Look! look!" he cried suddenly. "There's some-
his hat. His mouth moved as though he were praying.
I was glad when the coastguard came along, with his
spy-glass under his arm. He stopped to talk with me, as
ship.
look of her; butshe's knocking about inthe queerest way.
She doesn't know her mind a bit; she seems to see the
the open, or to put in here. Look there again! She is
We'llhear moreof herbeforethistimeto-morrow."

CHAPTER VII
CUTTINGFROM “THE DAILYGRAPH," 8 AUGUST
(PastedinMinaMurray'sJournal.)
From a Correspondent.
Whitby.
unique. Theweatherhadbeen somewhat sultry, but not to
body of holiday-makers laid out yesterday for visits to
Mulgrave Woods, RobinHood's Bay,Rig Mill, Runswick,
usually fine till the afternoon, when some of the gossips
"mares'-tails" high in the sky to the north-west. The wind
was thenblowing from the south-west in the mild degree
kept watch onweather signs from the East Cliff, foretold
masses of splendidly-coloured clouds, that there was quite
yard toenjoythebeauty. Beforethe sundipped below the
western sky, its downward way was marked by myriad

clouds of every sunset-colour-flame, purple, pink, green,
not large, but of seemingly absolute blackness, in all sorts
of shapes, as welloutlinedascolossalsilhouettes. The ex-
of the sketches of the "Prelude to the Great Storm" will
"cobble" or his "mule," as they term the different classes
of boats, would remain inthe harbour tillthe storm had
passed. The wind fell away entirely during the evening,
that prevailing intensity which, onthe approach of thun-
der, affects persons of a sensitive nature. Therewere but
few lights in sight at sea, for even the coasting steamers,
whichusually"hug" theshoresoclosely,kept well to sea-
noticeable was a foreignschooner with all sails set, which
was seeminglygoingwestwards. The foolhardiness or ig- .
night shut down she was seen with sails idly flapping as
she gently rolled ontheundulating swell of the sea,
Shortly before ten o'clock the stillness of the air grew
its lively French air, was like adiscord inthe greathar-
mony of nature's silence. A little after midnight came a
Thenwithoutwarningthetempest broke. Witharapid-
wards isimpossibleto realize, the whole aspect of nature
atoncebecameconvulsed. Thewaves rose ingrowing fury,
eachovertopping its fellow, till in a very few minutes the

CUTTING FROM “ THE DAILYGRAPH ” 85
rushed up the shelving cliffs; others broke over the piers,
houses which rise from the end of either pier of Whitby
such forcethat itwas withdifficultythat even strong men
chions. It was found necessary to clear the entire piers
from the mass of onlookers, or else the fatalities of the
but little effort of imagination to think that the spirits of
those lost at sea were touching their living brethren with
thewreaths ofsea-mistsweptby.Attimesthemistcleared,
such sudden peals of thunder that the whole sky overhead
seemed trembling under the shock of the footsteps of the
storm.
Some of the scenes thus revealed were of immeasura-
mountains high, threw skywards with each wave mighty
masses ofwhite foam,whichthe tempest seemedto snatch
with a rag of sail, running madly for shelter before the
sea-bird. Onthe summit oftheEast Cliff the new search-
lightwas readyforexperiment,buthadnotyet beentried.
inthe pauses ofthe inrushing mist sweptwith itthe sur-
face of the sea. Once or twice its service was most effect-
ive, as when a fishing-boat, with gunwale under water,
piers. As each boat achieved the safety of the port there
was a shout of joy from the mass of people on shore, a

was then sweptaway in its rush.
away a schoonerwithallsailsset, apparentlythesameves-
sel which had been noticed earlier in the evening. The
shudder amongst the watchers onthe cliff as they realized
ing from its present quarter, it would be quite impossible
now nearly the hour of high tide, but the waves were so
great that in their troughs the shallows of the shore were
ingwith such speedthat, inthe words of oneold salt,"she
must fetch up somewhere, if it was only in hell." Then
rays of the searchlight were kept fixed on the harbour
mouthacrosstheEast Pier, wherethe shock was expected,
ing from wave to wave as it rushed at headlong speed,
for lashed to the helm was a corpse, withdrooping head,
ship. No other form could be seen on deck at all. Agreat
awe came on all as they realised that the ship, as if by a
ittakes towritethesewords. Theschoonerpausednot, but
rushing across the harbour, pitched herself on that ac

CUTTING FROM “THE DAILYGRAPH” 87
under theEast Cliff, known locallyas Tate HillPier.
There was of course a considerable concussion as the
as theycallthem inthe Whitby vernacular actually pro-
ject over wherethe sustainingcliffhas fallen away, itdis-
appeared in the darkness, which seemed intensified just
beyond the focus of the searchlight.
It sohappened that there was no one atthe moment on
Tate Hill Pier, as all those whose houses are in close
proximity were either inbed or were out on the heights
above. Thus the coastguard on duty onthe eastern side of
the first to climb on board. Themen working the search-
once as though under some sudden emotion. This seemed
by theDrawbridge to Tate Hill Pier, but your correspond-
crowd. When I arrived, however, I found already assem-
police refusedtoallow to come onboard. Bythe courtesy
It was no wonder that the coastguard was surprised, or

kept fastby thebinding cords. The poor fellow may have
was tied had cut the flesh to the bone. Accurate note was
Caffyn, of 33, East Elliot Place-who came immediately
musthavebeendead forquite twodays. Inhispocketwas
abottle, carefully corked, empty save for a little roll of
paper, which proved to be the addendum to the log. The
fastening the knots with his teeth. The fact that a coast-
guardwas the firstonboardmay save somecomplications,
tering on a derelict. Already, however, the legal tongues
that the rights of the owner are already completely sacri-
ficed,his propertybeing heldincontravention of the stat-
utes of mortmain, since the tiller, as emblemship, if not
removed from the place where he held his honourable
await inquest.
is beginning to redden over the Yorkshire wolds. I shall
send, in time for your next issue, further details of the
derelict ship which found her way so miraculously into
harbourinthe storm.
Whitby.

CUTTING FROM " THE DAILYGRAPH” 89
Thiscargowas consignedto aWhitby solicitor, Mr. S. F.
Billington, of 7, The Crescent, who this morning went
harbourdues, etc. Nothing istalkedabout here to-day ex-
Tradehavebeenmostexacting inseeingthateverycompli-
is to be a "nine days' wonder," they are evidently deter-
minedthatthereshallbenocauseofaftercomplaint.Agood
of the S. P. C. A., which is very strong in Whitby, have
ment, however, itwas nottobe found; it seems to have
disappeared entirely fromthe town. It maybe that it was
still hiding interror. There are some who lookwithdread
on such apossibility, lest later onit should in itself be-
morning a large dog, a half-bred mastiff belonging to a
the roadway opposite to its master's yard. It had been
with a savageclaw.
Later. By the kindness of the Board of Trade in-
spector, Ihavebeenpermittedtolookoverthelog-bookof
the Demeter, which was in order up to within three days,
butcontainednothing of special interest exceptas to facts
ofmissingmen. Thegreatest interest,however, is with re-
gard to the paper found in the bottle, which was to-day
the two between them unfold it has not been my lot to

comeacross. As there is no motive for concealment, I am
cargo. It almost seems as though the captain had been
throughout the voyage. Of course my statement must be
me, time being short.
LOG OF THE "DEMETER."
Varna to Whitby.
boxes of earth. At noon set sail. East wind, fresh. Crew,
• • •
On II July at dawn entered Bosphorus. Boarded by
Turkish Customs officers. Backsheesh. All correct. Under
wayat4p. m.
darkpassedintoArchipelago.
about something. Seemedscared, but would not speak out.
steady fellows, who sailed with mebefore. Mate could not
make out what was wrong; they only told him there was
rel, butallwas quiet.

CUTTING FROM “THE DAILYGRAPH” 91
On 16 July mate reported inthe morning that one of
crew, Petrofsky, was missing. Could not account for it.
Took larboard watch eight bells last night; was relieved
by Abramoff, butdidnotgotobunk. Men more downcast
Mate getting veryimpatientwiththem; feared some trou-
bleahead.
On17July,yesterday, oneofthemen,Olgaren, cameto
that in his watch he had been sheltering behind the deck-
house, as there was a rain-storm, when he saw atall, thin
appear. He followed cautiously, but when he got to bows
may spread. To allay it, I shall to-day search entire ship
carefully from stem to stern.
them, astheyevidentlythought there was some one in the
ship, we would search from stem to stern. First mate
would demoralise the men; said he would engage to keep
there were onlythebig wooden boxes, there were no odd
scowled, but saidnothing.
busy with sails-no time to be frightened. Men seem to
goodterms. Praisedmen forworkinbad weather. Passed

24 July. There seems some doom over this ship. Al-
robin, asking to have double watch, as they fear to be
either he or the men will do some violence.
28 July. Fourdays inhell,knockingabout in a sort of
one. Men allworn out. Hardly know how to set awatch,
sincenoone fittogo on. Secondmatevolunteered to steer
abating; seas still terrific, but feel them less, as ship is
steadier.
as crewtoo tiredtodouble. Whenmorning watch came on
ofcause.
Weatherfine,allsailsset.Retiredwornout; slept soundly;
towork ship.
helporgetinsomewhere. Nothavingpowerto work sails,
haveto run before wind. Dare not lower, as could not
raisethemagain. We seem to be drifting to some terrible
stronger nature seems to have worked inwardly against

CUTTING FROM “ THE DAILYGRAPH ” 93
2August, midnight-. Wokeup fromfewminutes' sleep
by hearing a cry, seemingly outside my port. Could see
Onemoregone. Lord,helpus! Mate says wemust be past
Straits of Dover, as in a moment of fog lifting he saw
tohave deserted us.
Idared not leave it, so shouted for the mate. After a few
with his mouth to my ear, as though fearing the very air
might hear: "It is here; I know it, now. Onthe watch last
gaveItmyknife; but theknife went through It, empty as
I'llfindIt. Itisinthehold,perhaps inone of those boxes.
not leavethehelm. Isawhimcomeoutondeckagainwith
nal forhelp.

Itisnearlyallover now. Justas Iwasbeginningtohope
that the mate would come out calmer for I heard him
for him there came up the hatchway a sudden, startled
he said: "Youhad bettercometoo,captain, beforeitis too
late. He is there. I know the secret now. The sea will save
followedthemhimself. Godhelp me! How am I to account
for all these horrors when I get to port? When I get to
port! Willthat ever be?
know there is sunrise because I am a sailor, why else I
know not. I dared not go below, I dared not leave the
night I saw It-Him! God forgive me, but the mate was
have time to act. If we are wrecked, mayhap this
duty.
• ..

CUTTING FROM " THE DAILYGRAPH ” 95
mittedthemurdersthere isnownoneto say. The folkhere
hold almost universally that the captain is simply a hero,
dredboatshavealreadygivenintheirnames as wishing to
followhim to the grave.
No tracehas everbeen found of thegreatdog; atwhich
there is much mourning, for, with public opinion in its
present state, hewould, Ibelieve, beadoptedby the town.
more"mystery of the sea."
MinaMurray's Journal.
loudlyamongthechimney-pots, itmademeshudder. When
yields herself almost exactlyto the routine of her life.
waves, that seemed dark themselves because the foam that
topped them was like snow, forced themselves in through

10August. The funeral of thepoorsea-captain to-day
wasmosttouching.Everyboatintheharbourseemedtobe
fromTateHillPieruptothechurchyard. Lucycamewith
alltheway. Thepoor fellowwas laidto restquite nearour
everything. Poor Lucy seemedmuch upset. She was rest-
herdreamingatnightistellingonher.Sheisquiteodd in
Swales was founddead this morning onour seat, his neck
being broken. He hadevidently, as thedoctor said, fallen
backintheseatinsomesortof fright, forthere was alook
now she was quite upsetby alittlething which Idid not
of the men who came up hereoftento look for theboats
was followed by his dog. The dog is always with him.
wouldnotcometoitsmaster, whowasontheseatwithus,
ling out like a cat's tail when puss is on the war-path.

CUTTING FROM “ THE DAILY GRAPH” 97
which the seat is fixed. The moment it touched the stone
did not try to get away, but crouched down, quivering
that I tried, though withouteffect,tocomfort it. Lucy was
fullofpity, too,butshedidnotattemptto touchthedog,
thatshe is too super-sensitive a nature to go through the
world without trouble. She will be dreaming of this to-
night, Iam sure. The whole agglomerationof things-the
material forherdreams.
I think it will be best for her to go to bed tired out
physically, so I shalltakeher for along walkby the cliffs
muchinclinationforsleep-walking then.

CHAPTER VIII
MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL
Same day, 11 o'clock p. m.-Oh, but I am tired! If it
were not that I had made my diary a duty I should not
openitto-night. We had alovelywalk. Lucy, after awhile,
was ingay spirits, owing, Ithink, to somedear cows who
came nosing towards us in a field close to the lighthouse,
capital"severe tea" at Robin Hood's Bay in a sweet little
old-fashioned inn, with abow-window right over the sea-
both a fight for itwith thedustymiller; Iknow it was a
breedingupa new class of curates, who don't take supper,
oh, so sweet. If Mr. Holmwood fell in love with her see-
ingheronlyinthedrawing-room, Iwonderwhat hewould
say if he saw her now. Some of the "New Women"
should be allowed to see each other asleep before propos-

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL 99
condescend in future to accept; she willdo the proposing
some consolation inthat. I am so happy to-night, because
dear Lucy seems better. I reallybelieve she has turnedthe
...
11 August, 3 a. m.-Diary again. No sleep now, so I
mayas wellwrite. I amtooagitatedtosleep. We have had
asleep as soon as I had closed my diary. Suddenly I
me. The room was dark, so I could not see Lucy's bed; I
wasshut, but not locked,asIhadleft it. Ifearedto wake
I was leaving the room it struck me that the clothes she
wore might give mesomeclue toher dreaming intention.
sitting-room. Not there! Then I looked in all the other
it open. It was not wide open, but the catch of the lock
hadnotcaught. Thepeopleofthe housearecareful to lock
the door every night, so I feared that Lucy must have
gone out as she was. There was no time tothink of what
might happen; a vague, overmastering fear obscured all
could see no sign of the white figure which I expected. At
theedge of the West Cliff above the pier I looked across
theharbourto the East Cliff, inthehope or fear-I don't

know which-of seeing Lucy inour favouriteseat. There
was abright fullmoon, with heavy black, driving clouds,
which threw the whole scene into a fleeting diorama of
Icouldsee nothing, as the shadow of a cloud obscured St.
graduallyvisible. Whatevermyexpectation was, itwas not
disappointed, for there, on our favourite seat, the silver
light of the moon struck a half-reclining figure, snowy
white. The coming of the cloud was too quick for me to
see much, for shadow shut down on light almost imme-
diately; but it seemed to me as though something dark
market to thebridge,whichwastheonlywayto reach the
T
East Cliff. Thetown seemedasdead, fornot a souldid I
as Itoiledup the endless steps to the abbey. I must have
were rusty. WhenIgotalmostto thetop Icould see the
distinguish iteventhroughthespells of shadow. There was
half-reclining white figure. I called in fright, "Lucy!
i
cliningwithher head lyingoverthebackof the seat. She

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL ΙΟΙ
thing about.
When I bent over her I could see that she was still
softly as usual with her, but in long, heavy gasps, as
though striving to get her lungs fullat every breath. As I
collar of her nightdress close around her throat. Whilst
she did so there came a little shudder through her, as
thoughshe feltthecold. Iflungthewarm shawl over her,
lest she should get some deadly chill from the night air,
unclad as she was. I fearedtowakeher all at once, so, in
tenedthe shawl at her throat with abig safety-pin; but I
At first she did not respond; but gradually she became
shook her more forcibly, till finally she opened her eyes
course, shedid not realiseall at once where she was. Lucy
what appalled at waking unclad in a churchyard at night,
to me; when I told her to come at once with me home she
rose without aword, withthe obedience of a child. As we
ing my shoes; but Iwould not. However, whenwe got to
the pathway outside the churchyard, where there was a
puddle of water, remaining fromthe storm, I daubed my
feetwithmud,usingeach foot inturnonthe other, so that

as wewenthome, no one, incase we should meet ony one,
should notice my bare feet.
passing along a street in front of us;but wehid inadoor
here, steep little closes, or "wynds," as they call them in
about Lucy, notonly for her health, lest she should suffer
from the exposure, but for her reputation in case the
I tucked her into bed. Before falling asleep she asked-
mother, about her sleep-walking adventure. I hesitated at
first to promise; but on thinking of the state of her
might become distorted-nay, infallibly would-in case it
should leak out, I thought it wiser to do so. I hope I did
wrist, so perhaps I shall not be again disturbed. Lucy is
over the sea....
Same day, noon. All goes well. Lucy slepttill I woke
adventure of the night does not seem tohave harmed her;
on the contrary, ithas benefited her, for she looks better
notice that my clumsiness with the safety-pin hurt her.
Indeed, it might have been serious, for the skin of her
throatwaspierced. I musthavepinched up a piece of loose
it is sotiny.

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL
Same day, night.-We passed ahappyday. The air was
took our lunch to Mulgrave Woods, Mrs. Westenra driv-
Icould not but feel how absolutely happy it would have
bepatient. In the evening we strolled in the Casino Ter-
12 August. My expectations were wrong, for twice
during the night I was wakened by Lucy trying to get
out. She seemed, even in her sleep, to be a little impa-
birds chirping outside of the window. Lucy woke, too,
key on my wrist as before. Again I awoke in the night,
great, silent mystery-was beautiful beyond words. Be-
going in great whirling circles. Once or twice it came
quite close, but was, I suppose, frightened at seeing me,
When I cameback fromthe window Lucyhad laindown

all night.
day. Lucy seems to have become as much in love with the
itistime to come home for lunch or tea ordinner. This
afternoon she made a funny remark. We were coming
we generally do. The setting sun, low down in the sky,
was just dropping behind Kettleness; the red light was
seemed to bathe everything in abeautiful rosy glow. We
if to herself:-
"His red eyes again! They are just the same." It was
it quite startled me. I slewed round a little, so as to see
that I could not quite make out; so I said nothing, but
followed her eyes. She appearedtobelooking over at our
own seat, whereon was adark figure seatedalone. I was
second look dispelled the illusion. The red sunlight was
shining onthe windows of St. Mary's Church behind our
lightmoved. IcalledLucy'sattentiontothepeculiareffect,
all the same; it may have been that she was thinking of
that terrible night upthere. We never referto it; so Isaid
alittlestrollmyself; I walkedalongthecliffs tothe west-

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL IOJ
light, so bright that, though the front of our part of the
Crescent was in shadow, everything couldbe well seen-
light fell on the window. There distinctly was Lucy witlı
the window-sill, was something that looked like a good..
stairs, but as I came into the room she was moving back
from cold.
Idid not wakeher, but tucked her up warmly; I have
fastened.
eyeswhich Ido not like. I fearshe is fretting about some-
thing. I wish Icouldfindoutwhat it is.
a happy surprise at breakfast. Arthur's father is better,
on intheday shetold me thecause. She isgrieved to lose
Lucy as her veryown,but she isrejoicedthat she is soon
tohave some one to protect her. Poor dear, sweet lady!
doctor told her that within a few months, at most, she
now, a sudden shock would be almost sureto killher. Ah,
we were wiseto keep fromher the affair of thedreadful
night of Lucy's sleep-walking.

17 August.-No diary for two whole days. I have not
hadthe heart to write. Some sort of shadowy pall seems
air. I keep the key of our door always fastened to my
tweenlong,painfulstruggles for breath. When I asked her
turned away. I trust her feeling ill may not be from that
unlucky prickof the safety-pin. I looked at her throat just
are like little whitedots with red centres. Unless they heal
within a day or two, I shall insist on the doctor seeing
about them.
Letter, Samuel F. Billington & Son, Solicitors, Whitby, to
Messrs. Carter, Paterson & Co., London.
"17 August.
"Dear Sirs,一
"Herewith please receiveinvoice of goods sentbyGreat
Northern Railway. Same are to be delivered at Carfax,
near Purfleet, immediately on receipt at goods station
King's Cross. The house is at present empty, but enclosed
please findkeys, all of which are labelled.
"You will please deposit the boxes, fifty in number,
which formtheconsignment, inthepartially ruined build-
diagram enclosed. Your agent will easily recognise the

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL 107
at King's Cross at 4:30 to-morrow afternoon. As our
client wishes the delivery made as soon as possible, we
shall be obliged by your having teams ready at King's
your departments, we enclose cheque herewith for ten
pounds ( £10), receipt of which please acknowledge.
difference onhearing fromyou. Youareto leavethekeys
on coming away inthe main hall of the house, where the
proprietor may get them on his entering the house by
"Pray do not take us as exceeding the bounds of busi-
nescourtesy inpressingyou inallways to use the utmost
expedition.
"We are, dear Sirs
"Faithfullyyours,
"SAMUEL F. BILLINGTON & SON."
Letter, Messrs. Carter, Paterson & Co., London, το
Messrs. Billington & Son, Whitby.
"21 August.
"Dear Sirs,-
cheque £1 17s. 9d, amount of overplus, as shown in
receipted account herewith. Goods are delivered in exac
main hall, as directed.
"We are, dearrs,
"Yours_respectfully.
"Pro CARTER, PATERSON & Co."
MinaMurray's Journal.
seat in the churchyard. Lucy is ever so much better. Last

Therosesseemcomingbackalreadytoher cheeks, though
her asleep. As she told me she tapped playfully with the
"My poor little feet didn't make much noise then! I
daresaypoor old Mr. Swales would have told me that it
was in such acommunicativehumour, I asked her if she
sweet, puckered look came into her forehead, which
Arthur-I callhimArthur fromherhabit-says he loves;
on in ahalf-dreamingkind of way, as if trying to recall
it to herself:-
"Ididn'tquitedream;butitallseemedtobereal. I only
was afraid of something-Idon'tknowwhat. I remember,
though I supposeI was asleep,passingthrough the streets
-the whole town seemed as ifitmustbe full ofdogs all
howling at once-as I went up the steps. Then I had a
then everything seemed passing away from me; my soul
I seem to remember that once the West Lighthouse was
foundyou shakingmybody.Isawyoudo itbeforeIfelt
you."

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL 109
her old self again. When we got home the fresh breeze
spenta veryhappyeveningtogether.
19August.-Joy, joy, joy! althoughnotalljoy. At last,
why he did not write. I am not afraid to think it or say
it, now that I know. Mr. Hawkins sent me on the letter,
would not be a bad thing if we were to be married out
feel it wet against my bosom, where itlies. ItisofJona-
bethat Imust write no more; I mustkeep it to say
touched must comfort me till we meet.
Mary, Buda-Pesth, to Miss Wilhelmina Murray.
"12August.
"Dear Madam,-
self not strong enough to write, though progressing well,
underourcare fornearlysix weeks, suffering froma vio-
say thatby this post I write for him to Mr. Peter Haw-
kins, Exeter, to say, with his dutiful respects, that he is

thehills, butwillthenreturn. He wishes me to saythathe
to pay for his staying here, so that others who need shall
"SISTER AGATHA.
"P. S.-My patientbeing asleep, I open this to let you
that you are shortly to be his wife. All blessings to you
both! He has had some fearful shock-so says our doc-
theremaybe nothing to excite himofthis kind for a long
lightly die away. We should have written long ago, but
station-master there that he rushed into the station shout-
ing for a ticket for home. Seeing from his violent de-
the furthest station on the way thither that the train
reached.
"Be assured that he is well cared for. He has won all
himself. Butbecarefulof him forsafety's sake. Thereare,
happy years for you both."
Dr. Seward'sDiary.
couragedhim to talk.He is usually respectfultotheatten-

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL III
hewas quite haughty. Would not condescend to talk with
him at all. All he would say was:-
dreadful one. At nine o'clock I visited him myself. His
themselves away! The real God taketh heed lest a spar-
onlyknew!
watching him, but I kept strict observation all the same.
All at once that shifty look came into his eyes which we
looked into space with lack-lustre eyes. I thought Iwould
to lead him to talk of his pets, a theme which had never
failedtoexcitehisattention.At firsthemadenoreply, but
at length said testily:-
"Bother them all! I don't careapin about them."
the note-book is filling up with columns of small figures.)
"The bride-maidens rejoice the eyes that wait the com-
ing of the bride; but when the bride draweth nigh, then
the maidens shine not to the eyes that are filled."

Hewould not explainhimself, but remained obstinately
seated onhisbedallthetime I remained with him.
If Idon't sleep at once, chloral, the modern Morpheus-
C2 HCl3 O. H₂ O! I must becarefulnotto let itgrow into
a habit. No, I shall take none to-night! I have thought of
need be, to-night shallbe sleepless.
Later. Glad I madetheresolution; gladder that Ikept
sentupfromtheward,tosaythat Renfieldhadescaped. I
nottenminutes before, seemingly asleep inhis bed, when
he had looked through the observation-trap in the door.
Hisattentionwascalledbythesoundofthewindowbeing
himwhilst getting out ofthebuilding bythe door. He is
As I got through the belt of trees I saw a white figure
scalethehighwallwhichseparates ourgrounds fromthose
of thedeserted house.
other side. I could see Renfield's figurejust disappearing

MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL 113
farsideofthehouse I foundhimpressedcloseagainst the
oldironboundoakdoor ofthechapel.He was talking, ap-
parently to some one, but I was afraid to go near enough
to hear what he was saying, lest I might frighten him,
escaping is upon him! After a few minutes, however, I
him in. I heard him say:-
"I am here to do Your bidding, Master. I am Your
by, will You, dear Master, in Your distribution of good
things?"
we closed in on him he fought like a tiger. He is im
done wild work before he was caged. He is safe now at
to thewallinthe padded room. His cries are at times aw-
ful, but the silences that follow are more deadly still, for
Justnowhespoke coherent words for the first time:-
"I shallbepatient, Master. Itis coming-coming-com-
ing!"
some sleep to-night.

CHAPTER IX
Letter, Mina Harker to Lucy Westenra.
"Buda-Pesth, 24 August.
"My dearest Lucy,-
pened since we parted at the railway station at Whitby.
do somenursing, Ihadbettergetallthesleep Icould.
...
looking. All the resolution has gone out of his dear eyes,
fear itmight taxhis poorbrainif he were to try to recall
nurse, tells me thathe raved of dreadfulthings whilst he
tell; that the ravings of the sick were the secrets of God,
the nextday, whenshe saw I was troubled, she opened up
be, have no cause to be concerned. He has not forgotten

LETTERS , ETC. 115
the dear soul thought I might be jealous lest my poor
dear, let mewhisper, I feltathrillofjoythrough mewhen
he sleeps. He is waking! ...
to get something from the pocket; I asked Sister Agatha,
at it for I knew then that I might find some clue to his
trouble-but I suppose he must have seen my wish in my
to be quite alone for a moment. Then he called me back,
he said to me very solemnly:-
66'Wilhelmina'-I knew then that he was in deadly
earnest, for he has never called me by that name since he
asked me to marry him-'you know, dear, my ideas of the
totakeupmy life here, with our marriage.' For, my dear,
we had decided to be married as soon as the formalities
are complete. 'Are you willing, Wilhelmina, to share my
ifyou will, but never let me know; unless, indeed, some
solemn duty shouldcomeuponmeto go backto the bitter
waiting her reply....
English mission church has been sent for. We are to be

awakes.
...
Icouldhardly speak; myheartwas so fullthateventhose
words seemed to choke me. The dear sisters were sokind.
PleaseGod, Ishallnever, never forgetthem, northegrave
tieditwithalittlebitofpaleblueribbonwhichwas round
us all our lives that we trusted each other; that I would
never open it unless it were for his own dear sake or for
der if at first he mixes up not only the month, but the
year.
"Well, mydear, whatcouldIsay? Icouldonlytellhim
very solemnpledgebetween us. . .
"Lucy dear, do youknow why I tellyouallthis? It is
not only because it is all sweet to me, but because you

LETTERS , ETC. 117
dutyhas ledme; sothat inyour ownmarried lifeyou too
maybeallhappyas Iam. Mydear, please AlmightyGod,
your life may be all itpromises: a long day of sunshine,
with no harsh wind, no forgetting duty, no distrust. I
hopeyou willbe always as happyas Iam now. Good-bye,
"Your ever-loving
"MINA HARKER."
Letter, Lucy Westenra to Mina Harker.
"Whitby, 30 August.
"My dearest Mina,-
couldbe coming home soon enough to stay with us here.
havequitegivenupwalkinginmysleep. Ithink I have not
stirredout of mybed for aweek, that is when I oncegot
intoitatnight.Arthur says I amgetting fat. Bytheway, I
forgot to tellyouthatArthurishere. Wehave suchwalks
helovesmemore,but Idoubt that, forat firsthetold me
is nonsense. There he is, calling to me. So no more just
at present fromyour loving
"LUCY.
"P. S.-Mother sends her love. She seems better, poor
dear.
"P. P. S. We are tobe married on 28 September."

Dr. Seward's Diary.
20 August. The case of Renfield grows even more in-
teresting. He has now so far quieted that there are spelis
¡ of cessation from his passion. For the first week after his
atttack he was perpetually violent. Then one night, just
padded room, but the suffused look had gone from his
might almost say, "cringing"-softness. I was satisfied
humour enough to see their distrust, for, coming close to
me, he said in awhisper, allthe while looking furtively at
them:-
The fools!"
Itwas soothing, somehow,tothe feelingsto findmyself
the others; but all the same I do not follow his thought.
gainfrommesomegood sostupendousthatmywell-being
is needful to him? I must find out later on. To-night he
will not speak. Even the offer of a kitten or even a full-
grown cat willnottempt him. He will only say: "I don't
into aparoxysm which exhausted him so that he swooned
into a sort of coma.
Three nights has the same thing happened-violent
all.d.a.ythenquiet frommoonriseto sunrise. I wish Icould

LETTER.S, ETC. 119
get some clue to the cause. It would almost seem as if
ones. He escaped before without our help; to-night he
themenreadyto follow incasethey are required....
23 August. "The unexpected always happens." How
well Disraeli knew life. Our bird when he found the cage
spells of quietness last a reasonable time. We shall in fu-
turebe able to ease his bonds for a few hours each day. I
hour before sunrise. The poor soul's body will enjoy the
expected again! I am called; the patient has once more
escaped.
him inthe same place, pressed against the old chapel door.
grew calm. I looked round instinctively, but could see
but could trace nothing as it looked into the moonlit sky
one seemed to go straight on, as if it knew where it was
bound for or had some intention of its own. The patient
"You needn't tie me; Ishallgo quietly!" Without trou-
ble we came back to the house. I feel there is something
...

Lucy Westenra's Diary
do meet. I wonder when it will be. I wish she were with
meagain, for I feel so unhappy. Last night I seemedtobe
dreaming again just as I was at Whitby. Perhaps it is
Arthur came to lunch he looked quite grieved when he
wonder if I could sleep inmother's room to-night. I shall
succeeded forawhile; butwhenthe clockstrucktwelve it
wakedme fromadoze, so I must havebeen fallingasleep.
Therewas asortofscratching or flappingatthe window,
pose I must then have fallen asleep. More bad dreams. I
wishIcouldremember them. This morning I am horribly
Itmust be something wrong with my lungs, for I don't
seem ever to get air enough. I shall try to cheer up when
Arthur comes, or else I know he willbemiserableto see
me so.
Letter,ArthurHolmwood to Dr. Seward.
"Albemarle Hotel, 31 August.
"My dear Jack,-
cause; I do not dare to ask her mother, for to disturb the
poor lady's mind about her daughter in her present state
of health would be fatal. Mrs. Westenra has confided to

LETTERS , ETC. 121
me thatherdoomis spoken-diseaseoftheheart-though
poor Lucy does not know it yet. I am sure that there is
something preying on my dear girl's mind. I am almost
distractedwhen I think of her; to lookat her gives me a
she demurred at first-I know why, old fellow-she fi-
nally consented. It will be apainfultask foryou, I know,
ask, oryou toact. Youaretocometo lunchat Hillingham
portunity of being alone with you. I shall come in for
you have seen her. Do not fail! "ARTHUR."
Telegram, Arthur Holmwood to Seward.
"I September.
"Am summoned to see my father, who is worse. Am
writing. Write me fully by to-night's post to Ring. Wire
me if necessary."
Letter from Dr. Seward to Arthur Holmwood.
"2 September.
"My dear old fellow,-
"With regard to Miss Westenra's health I hasten to let
when I saw her last. Of course you must bear in mind
thatIdidnothavefullopportunityofexaminationsuchas
Ishould wish; ourvery friendship makes alittledifficulty
Ihadbettertellyouexactly whathappened, leavingyou to
draw, inameasure, your ownconclusions. I shall then say
"I found Miss Westenra in seemingly gay spirits. Her

mind that she was trying all she knew to mislead her
doubtsheguesses, ifshe does notknow, whatneedofcau-
selves to be cheerful, we got, as somekind of reward for
our labours, some realcheerfulnessamongstus. Then Mrs.
soon as the door was closed, however, the mask fell from
reaction to make a diagnosis. She said to me very
sweetly:-
reminded her that a doctor's confidence was sacred, but
word. 'Tell Arthur everything you choose. I do not care
for myself, but all for him!' So I am quite free.
"Icouldeasily seethatshe is somewhat bloodless, but I
was actually able to test the quality of her blood, for in
health. In otherphysicalmatters I was quite satisfiedthat
somewhere, I have come to the conclusion that it must be
something mental. She complains ofdifficulty inbreathing
member nothing. She says that as achild she usedto walk

LETTERS, ETC.
Cliff, where Miss Murray foundher;but she assures me
so have done the best thing I know of; I have written to
Amsterdam, who knows as muchabout obscure diseases as
asyou toldmethat allthings were to be atyour charge, I
Miss Westenra. This, my dear fellow, is in obedience to
whatgroundhecomes,wemustaccept hiswishes. He is a
his all-embracing sympathy.Itellyouthese facts that you
mayknowwhy Ihavesuchconfidenceinhim. I haveasked
him to come at once. I shall see Miss Westenra to-mor-
row again. She is to meet me at the Stores, so that I
maynotalarmher motherby too early a repetitionof my
call.
"Yours always,
"JOHN SEWARD."
etc., to Dr. Servard.
"2 September.
"Mygood Friend,-
"When I have received your letter I am already coming
tune other, then it were bad for those who have trusted,
for I come to my friendwhen he call me to aid those he

holdsdear. Tellyour friendthat whenthat timeyou suck
from that knife that our other friend, too nervous, let
pleasure added to do for him, your friend; it is to you
thatIcome. Havethenrooms for meattheGreatEastern
morrow, for itislikelythat Imayhaveto returnherethat
staylonger ifitmust.Tillthengood-bye, my friendJohn.
Letter, Dr. Seward to Hon. Arthur Holmwood.
"3 September. ২
"My dear Art,-
mother was lunchingout,sothat we were alone with her.
course I was notpresent allthetime.Heis, I fear, much
concerned,butsayshemustthink. When Itoldhimofour
'You must tell him allyou think. Tell him what I think,
teabefore startingonhisreturn to Amsterdam. He would
brains are working for her good. He will speak plainly
enough when the time comes, be sure. So I told him I
were doing a descriptive special article for The Daily
Telegraph. Heseemednotto notice,butremarked thatthe
smuts inLondonwerenotquitesobadasthey usedto be

LETTERS , ETC. 125
when he was a student here. I am to get his report to-
have a letter.
had lost something of the ghastly look that so upsetyou,
at ease; though I could see that the poorgirl was making
for I saw the quick look under his bushy brows that I
said:-
66'Mydearyoungmiss, I have the sogreatpleasurebe-
cause you are so much beloved. That is much, my dear,
everweretherethat which Ido not see. Theytold meyou
pointedmeouttohisclass, on, orrather after, aparticular
occasion which he never fails to remind me of 'know
donottellthemselves to theyoung,buttotheold, likeme,
So, mydear, wewillsendhimawayto smokethecigarette
looked grave, but said: 'I have madecarefulexamination,
but there is no functional cause. With you I agree that

there has been much blood lost; it has been, but is not.
asked herto send me her maid, that Imayaskjust one or
if there be cause I shallcome again. Thedisease-for not
her, if not for you or disease, I come.'
"As I tell you, he would not say a word more, even
Ishallkeep stern watch. Itrustyourpoor father is rally-
ing. Itmustbe aterriblething toyou, mydear old fellow,
tobeplacedinsuchapositionbetween twopeople who are
both so dear to you. I know your idea of duty to your
shallsendyou word to come at once to Lucy; sodonotbe
Dr. Seward's Diary.
4September.-Zoophagouspatientstillkeeps up our in-
noonhe became soviolentthatittookalltheir strength to
choly, in which state he has remained up to now. The at-
in, attending to some of the other patients who were
effect, for the sounds,disturbed even me, though I was

LETTERS , ETC.
with a dull, sullen, woe-begone look in his face, which
ing nail-marks on the edge of thedoorbetween the ridges
note-book again. I thought it well to humour him: so he
is back in his room with the window open. He has the
ing quite a harvest of flies. He is not now eating them,
aminingthecornersofhis roomto find a spider. I tried to
thoughts would be of immensehelp to me; buthewould
in a sort of far-away voice, as though saying it rather to
"All over! all over! He has deserted me. No hope for
menow unless I do it formyself!" Then suddenlyturning
to me in a resolute way, he said: "Doctor, won't you be
thinkitwouldbegoodforme."
thinkthatmadmen do not argue. I procured him adouble
theworld. I wish I could fathom his mind.
sunset, when once more I heardhimyelling. As his room
themorning. Itwas ashockto meto turn from the won

derful smoky beauty of a sunset over London, with its
realiseallthegrim sternness ofmyowncold stonebuild-
late heart to endure it all. I reached him just as the sun
mass, on the floor. It is wonderful, however, what intel-
lectual recuperativepower lunatics have, for within a few
down on his bed. Allthis surprised me, so I asked him:
"No," saidhe;"I amsick of allthat rubbish!" He cer-
tainlyisawonderfullyinterestingstudy. IwishIcouldget
some glimpse of his mind or of the cause of his sudden
sun at periods which affects certain natures-as at times
the moon does others? We shall see.
"4 September.-Patient stillbetter to-day."
"5 September.-Patient greatly improved.'Good appe-
tite; sleeps naturally; good spirits; colour coming back."
wood till have seenyou."

CHAPTER X
Letter, Dr. Seward to Hon. Arthur Holmwood
"6 September.
"Mydear Art,-
"Mynews to-dayis notsogood. Lucythis morning had
gone backabit. There is, however, one good thing which
dition, might be disastrous to her. We arehedged in with
difficulties, allofus, mypoor old fellow; but, pleaseGod,
write, so that, if you do not hear from me, take it for
Yours ever,
"JOHN SEWARD."
Dr. Seward's Diary.
whenwemet at Liverpool Street was:-
ofher?"
"No," I said. "I waited till Ihad seenyou, as I said in
my telegram. I wrote him a letter simply telling him that
that I should let him know if need be."
"Right, my friend," hesaid,"quite right! Better he not
knowasyet; perhapshe shallneverknow. Ipray so; but

John, let mecautionyou. You deal with the madmen. All
you deal discreetly withyour madmen, so deal with God's
madmen, too the rest of the world. You tell not your
madmenwhatyoudo norwhyyoudo it;you tellthemnot
whatyou think. Soyou shall keep knowledge in its place,
where itmayrest-where itmaygather its kind around it
myself thoughts at the present. Later I shall unfold to
you."
"Why not now?" I asked. "It may do some good; we
"My friendJohn, whenthecorn isgrown, evenbefore it
has ripened-while the milk of its mother-earth is in him,
to you: 'Look! he's good corn; he will make good crop
then because he knows, but not till then. But you do not
turehas her workto do in making it sprout; if he sprout
to swell." He brokeoff, for heevidently sawthat Iunder-
have not fail. Remember, my friend, that knowledge is

LETTERS , ETC .. 131
Even if you have not kept the good practise, let me tell
you that this case of our dear miss is one that may be-
allthe restmay notmakehim kickthebeam, as your peo-
ples say. Take then good note of it. Nothing is too small
surmises. Hereafteritmaybeofinteresttoyouto see how
trueyou guess. Welearn from failure,not from success!"
When I described Lucy's symptoms-the same as be-
fore, but infinitely more marked-he looked very grave,
but said nothing. He took with him a bag in which were
of our beneficial trade," as he once called, in one of his
lectures, theequipment of a professor of thehealing craft.
When wewere shown in, Mrs. Westenra met us. She was
alarmed, butnotnearlysomuch as I expectedto findher.
Nature in one of her beneficent moods has ordained that
orderedthat, from somecauseorother, thethings notper-
she is so attached-do not seem to reach her. It is some-
thing like the wayDame Naturegathers round a foreign
tect from evilthat which it would otherwiseharmby con-
knowledge of.
Iused myknowledge of this phase of spiritual pathol-
required. She assented readily, so readilythat I saw again
were shown up to Lucy's room. If I was shocked when I
saw her yesterday, I was horrified when I saw herto-day.
Shewasghastly,chalkilypale;thered seemedtohavegone
stood outprominently; herbreathing waspainfultosee or

brows converged till they almost touched over his nose.
passage to the nextdoor, which was open. Then he pulled
he said; "this isdreadful. There is notimetobe lost. She
Is ityou or me?"
"Thenget readyat once. I willbring up my bag. I am
prepared."
was a knock at the hall-door. When we reached the hall
whisper:-
ing." When first the Professor's eye had lit upon him he
him, his eyes gleamed. Without a pause he said to him
"Sir, you have come in time. You are the lover of our
dear miss. She isbad, very, very bad. Nay, my child, do
help."
drop ofblood inmybody for her." The Professor has a

LETTERS, ETC. 133
"My young sir, I do not ask so much as that not the
last!"
sorwentonbyexplaininginakindlyway:-
emptyveinswhichpine forhim. Johnwastogivehisblood.
whotoilmuchinthe worldof thought. Our nerves are not
"If you only knew how gladly Iwoulddie for heryou
He stopped, with a sortofchoke inhisvoice.
youwill be happythatyou have done all forheryou love.
sign. Say no word to Madame; you know how it is with
be one. Come!"
Weallwentupto Lucy'sroom. Arthurby direction re-
butsaid nothing. Shewas not asleep, but she was simply
too weak to make the effort. Her eyes spoke to us; that
laid them on alittle table out of sight. Then he mixed a
"Now, little miss, here is your medicine. Drink it off,
like agood child. See, I liftyousothatto swallow is easy.
Yes." Shehadmadethe effort with success.
Itastonishedmehow longthedrugtooktoact. This, in

fact, markedtheextent of her weakness. The time seemed
she fell into a deep sleep. When the Professor was satis-
hiscoat. Thenheadded:"youmaytakethatone littlekiss
whiles I bring over the table. Friend John, help to me!"
So neither of us looked whilst he bent over her.
we need notdefibrinateit."
on something like lifeseemed to come back to poor Lucy's
Lucy's system must have undergone that what weakened
Arthur only partially restored her. But the Professor's
myownheartbeat.Presentlyhe saidinasoftvoice: "Do
look to her." When all was over I could see how much
hishead:-
ation, he adjustedthe pillow to the patient's head. As he
buckle which her lover had given her, was dragged a little
notice it, but Icouldhearthe deep hiss of indrawn breath
He said nothing atthe moment, butturnedto me, saying:

LETTERS, ETC. 135
"Now take down our brave young lover, give him of the
recruited of what he has sogivento his love. He must not
stayhere.Hold!amoment. Imaytake it,sir,thatyou are
the operation is successful. You have saved her life this
loveyou nonethe less for whatyou havedone. Good-bye."
When Arthur had gone I went back to the room. Lucy
was sleeping gently, but her breathing was stronger; I
fessor in a whisper:-
"What do youmake ofthat mark on herthroat?"
"What do you make of it?"
jugular vein there were two punctures, not large, but not
wholesome-looking. There was no sign ofdisease, but the
tion. Itat once occurred tomethatthis wound, or what-
suchathingcouldnotbe.Thewholebed would have been
drenched to a scarlet with the blood which the girl must
fusion.
sor stood up. "I mustgobackto Amsterdam to-night," he
sight pass fromher."
"Shall I have a nurse?" I asked.

thenwemaybegin."
saidwithwarningfingerheldup:-
harm befall, you shallnot sleep easy hereafter!"
Dr. Seward's Diary--continued. 1
8 September.-I sat up all night with Lucy. The opiate
she looked adifferent being from what she had been be-
was full of ahappy vivacity,but Icould see evidences of
theabsoluteprostration whichshehadundergone. When I
I should situpwith her she almost pooh-poohed the idea,
for my long vigil. When her maid had prepared her for
make objection, but looked at me gratefully whenever I
caught her eye. After a long spell she seemed sinking off
tackledthesubjectatonce:-
"No; I am afraid."
"Afraid to go to sleep! Why so? It isthe boon we all
crave for."
"Ah, not if you were like me if sleep was to you a
presageofhorror!"

LETTERS , ETC. 137
terrible. All this weakness comes to me in sleep; until I
dreadtheverythought."
"But, my dear girl, you may sleep to-night. I am here
dreams Iwillwakeyouatonce."
"You will? Oh, will you really? How good you are to
All night long I watchedby her. She never stirred, but
hadcometodisturbherpeaceofmind.
Arthur, telling them of the excellent result of the opera-
day to clear off; it was dark when I was able to inquire
aboutmyzoöphagouspatient.Thereportwasgood;hehad
suggesting that I should be at Hillingham to-night, as it
ing.
gottoHillingham. Fortwonights Ihadhardly had awink
"No sitting up to-night for you. You are worn out. I
sitting up, it isI who will sit up withyou." I would not

i
showed me a room next her own, where a cozy fire was
burning. "Now," she said, "you must stay here. I shall
doctors togo tobed whilstthereisapatientabove thehori-
to me at once." I could notbut acquiesce, for I was "dog-
Lucy Westenra'sDiary.
9September. I feel sohappyto-night. I have beenso
like feeling sunshine after a long spell of east wind out of
a steel sky. Somehow Arthur feels very, very closeto me.
Iseemto feelhis presencewarmaboutme. I suppose it is
Arthur only knew! My dear, my dear, your ears must
tingle as you sleep, as mine do waking. Oh, the blissful
rest of last night! How I slept, with thatdear, good Dr.
night,Arthur.
Dr. Seward's Diary.

LETTERS , ETC. 139
"Well, when I left her, or rather when she left me," I
theroom.
over to thebed.
the room, I heard the Professor's low hiss of inspiration,
tion of horror, "Gott in Himmel!" needed no enforcement
feltmy knees begintotremble.
There onthe bed,seeminglyina swoon, laypoor Lucy,
back fromtheteeth, as we sometimes see in acorpse after
agonising suspense said:-
"It is not too late. Itbeats, though but feebly. All our
Arthurhere now; I havetocall onyouyourself this time,
After a time-it did not seem ashort time either, for the
draining away of one's blood, no matter how willingly it
warning finger."Do notstir," hesaid, "butI fearthatwith

I shall give hypodermic injection of morphia." He pro-
effectonLucywas notbad, forthe faint seemedtomerge
subtlyinto thenarcoticsleep. Itwaswitha feeling of per-
sonal pride that I could see a faint tinge of colour steal
experiences it, what it isto feelhis ownlife-blood drawn
TheProfessor watched me critically. "That willdo," he
said. "Already?" I remonstrated. "You took a great deal
more fromArt." Towhichhesmiledasadsortof smile as
he replied:-
Whenwe stopped the operation, he attended to Lucy,
whilst I applieddigital pressuretomyownincision. I laid
down, whilstIwaitedhisleisureto attend tome,forI felt
whispered:-
"Mind, nothingmust be saidofthis. Ifouryoung lover
shouldturnupunexpected, asbefore, no word tohim. It
mustbe none. So!"
said:-
ness lost something of the amazement at what had oс-
curred. I fellasleeponthe sofa, however, wondering over
Imusthavecontinuedmywonderinmydreams, for, sleep-

LETTERS , ETC. 141
for a walk, leaving me in charge, with strict injunctions
that I was nottoleaveher fora moment. I could hearhis
voice in the hall, asking the way to the nearest telegraph
office.
said to me gratefully:-
"We owe you so much, Dr. Seward, for all you have
done, but you really must now take care not to overwork
spoke, Lucy turned crimson, though it was only momen-
excessive pallor as she turned imploring eyes on me. I
drink enough. Makeyourself strong. I stay here to-night,
have grave reasons. No, do not ask them; thinkwhat you
will. Do not fear to think even the most not-probable.
Good-night."
they or either ofthem might not sit up with Miss Lucy.
asked me quite piteously to intercede with the "foreign

cause it was on Lucy's account, that their devotion was
down whilst waiting for sleep. Itiscoming.
11 September. This afternoon I went over to Hilling-
muchbetter. ShortlyafterIhadarrived,abigparcel from
abroad came for the Professor. He opened it with much
bundle of white flowers.
"These are foryou, Miss Lucy," he said.
"Yes, mydear, but not foryou to play with. These are
medicines." Here Lucy made a wry face."Nay, but they
are not to take in a decoctionorinnauseous form, soyou
need not snub that so charming nose, or I shallpoint out
to my friend Arthur what woes he may have to endure in
seeing so much beauty that he so loves so much distort.
Aha,myprettymiss,thatbringthesonicenose all straight
again. This is medicinal, butyou do not know how. I put
roundyour neck, so thatyou sleep well. Ohyes! they, like
the lotus flower, make your trouble forgotten. It smell so
findhimalltoo late."
Whilst he was speaking, Lucy had been examining the
"Oh, Professor, I believeyouareonlyputtingupa joke
onme. Why, these flowers are only commongarlic."
meeting:-
"No trifling with me!,I never jest! There is grim pur-
me.Takecare, forthesakeofothers if not foryour own."
Then seeing poor Lucy scared, as she might well be, he

LETTERS , ETC. 143
went on more gently: "Oh, little miss, my dear, do not
fearme. I onlydo for yourgood; but thereismuchvirtue
toyou inthose socommon flowers. See, I place them my-
self in your room. Imakemyself the wreath that you are
to wear. But hush! no telling to others that make so in-
into loving arms that wait for you. Now sit still awhile.
room with my garlic, which is all the way from Haarlem,
all the year. I had to telegraph yesterday, or they would
not have been here."
Wewent intothe room, takingthe flowers with us. The
thesashes, asthoughto ensure that every whiff of airthat
might get in would be laden with the garlic smell. Then
with the wisp he rubbed all over the jamb of the door,
I said:-
"Well, Professor, I knowyou always have a reason for
what you do, but this certainly puzzles me. It is well we
have nosceptic here, or hewould saythatyou were work-
make the wreath which Lucy was to wear round her neck.
We then waited whilst Lucy made her toilet for the
thewreathofgarlicroundher neck. Thelast words he said
to here were:-
feel close, do not to-night open the window or the door."
times forallyourkindnessto me! Oh, whathave I done to
beblessedwith such friends?"

Helsing said:-
withouttowink. To-morrowinthemorningearlyyoucall
much more strong for my'spell' which I have work. Ho!
ho!"
He seemed so confident that I, remembering my own
thatmade mehesitateto tell itto my friend,but I felt it
allthemore,likeunshedtears.

CHAPTER XI
Lucy Westenra'sDiary.
12 September-How good they all are to me. I quite
feel comfort fromthem already. Somehow, Ido notdread
terrible struggle that I have hadagainst sleep so often of
late; the painofthe sleeplessness, or thepain of the fear
of sleep, with such unknown horrors as it has for me!
How blessed are some people, whose lives have no fears,
no dreads; to whom sleep is ablessing thatcomes nightly,
garlicbefore, butto-night it is delightful! There is peace
initssmell; Ifeelsleepcomingalready.Good-night, every-
body.
Dr. Seward'sDiary.
Helsing, as usual, up totime. The carriage ordered from
the hotel was waiting. The Professor took his bag, which
he always brings withhim now.
at Hillingham at eight o'clock. It was a lovely morning;
work. The leaves were turning to all kinds of beautiful
colours, but had not yet begun to drop from the trees.
Whenwe entered we met Mrs. Westenra coming out of

"You willbe glad toknow that Lucyisbetter. The dear
butdidnotgoin,lest Ishoulddisturbher." The Professor
"Aha! I thought I haddiagnosedthecase. My treatment
"You must not take all the credit to yourself, doctor.
Lucy's statethismorning isdueinparttome."
soundly that even my coming did not wake her. But the
room was awfully stuffy. There were a lot of those horri-
actually abunch of them round her neck. Ifearedthatthe
heavy odour wouldbe too much for the dear child in her
windowtolet in alittle freshair. You willbepleasedwith
her, I am sure."
Shemovedoffintoherboudoir,wheresheusuallybreak-
fasted early. As shehadspoken, I watchedthe Professor's
be; heactually smiled on heras heheldopen the door for
that seemed to come from the very racking of his heart.
Thenhe raisedhis arms again, asthough appealing to the
whole universe. "God! God! God!" he said. "What have
wedone,whathasthispoorthingdone,that weare so sore

LETTERS , ETC. 147
beset? Is there fate amongst us still, sent down from the
best as she think, does such thing as lose her daughter
beset! How are all the powers of the devils against us!"
Suddenly he jumped to his feet. "Come," he said,"come,
at once, it matters not; we fight him all the same." He
toLucy's room.
went towards the bed. This time he did not start as he
lookedonthepoor face withthe sameawful, waxen pallor
pity.
"As I expected," he murmured, with that hissing in-
operate. Ishallprovide.Youareweakenedalready."Ashe
Againthe operation; againthe narcotic; againsome re-
room without consulting him; that the flowers were of
a part of the system of cure. Then he took over the care
of thecasehimself, sayingthat he would watch this night
ribleordeal.

uponmyownbrain.
:
Lucy Westenra's-Diary.
ting so strongagain that I hardly know myself. It is as if
air of the morning around me. I have a dim half-
ing;darkness inwhichtherewas noteventhepainofhope
comingupthrough agreat press of water. Since, however,
seemstohavepassedaway;thenoisesthatusedto frighten
meoutof my wits-the flapping againstthe windows, the
me to do I know not what have all ceased. I go to bed
Helsing is going away, as he has to be for aday in Am-
sterdam. But I neednot be watched; Iam wellenough to
Helsing slept in his chair alotofthe time. I found him
asleep twice when I awoke; but I did not fear to go to
sleep again, although the boughs or bats or something
"ThePallMallGazette," 18 September.
THE ESCAPED WOLF.
PERILOUSADVENTURE OF OUR INTERVIEWER
Interview with the Keeperin the Zoological Gardens.

LETTERS , ETC. 149
perpetually using the words "Pall Mall Gazette" as a sort
theZoological Gardens inwhichthe wolf department is in-
cluded. Thomas Bilder lives in one of the cottages in the
the specimen I enjoyed of their hospitality be of the aver-
age kind, their lives must be pretty comfortable. The
keeper would not enter on whathe called"business" until
You'llexcoosemerefoosin' totalkofperfeshunal subjects
hyenas in all our section their tea afore I begins to arsk
themquestions."
wishful toget him into atalkativehumour.
"'Ittin' of them over the 'ead with a pole is one way;
mindthefust-the'ittin' withapoleaforeIchucks intheir
fee, so to speak, afore I tries on with the ear-scratchin'.
Mindyou," headdedphilosophically,"there's adeal of the
evenwhenyou arsked me sarcastic-like if I'd like you to
arsk the Superintendent ifyou might arsk me questions.
WithoutoffencedidItellyer togo to 'ell?"
"Youdid."
quid made that all right. I weren't a-goin' to fight, so I

git even a growl out of me. Drive along with your ques-
tions. I know whatyer a-comin' at,that 'ere escaped wolf."
howyou thinkthe whole affair will end."
"All right, guv'nor. This 'ere is about the 'ole story.
That'erewolf what we called Bersicker was one of three
greyones that came from Norway to Jamrach's, which we
wolf, that never gave no trouble to talk of. I'm more sur-
women."
"Don't you mindhim, sir!" broke in Mrs. Tom, with a
blest if he ain't like a old wolf 'isself! But there ain't no
'arm in 'im."
"Well, sir, it was about two hours after feedin' yester-
litter in the monkey-house for ayoung puma which is ill;
straight. There was Bersicker a-tearin' like a madthing at
a few white hairs runnin' through it. He had a 'ard, cold
it seemed as if itwas 'im as they was hirritated at. He 'ad
something.'
"'Maybe it's you,' says I, for I did not like the airs as
buthesmileda kind of insolentsmile, withamouthfull of
white, sharp teeth. 'Oh no, they wouldn't like me,' 'e says.
""Owyes, they would,' says I, a-imitatin' ofhim. 'They

LETTERS , ETC. 151
time, whichyou'asabagful.'
stroke the old wolf's ears too!
'Tyke care,' says I. 'Bersicker is quick.'
" Nevermind,' hesays. 'I'musedto 'em!'
""Are you in the business yourself?' I says, tyking off
good friendtokeepers.
"'No,' says he, 'not exactly in the business, but I 'ave
ning. Well, larst night, so soon as the moon was hup, the
them to 'owl at. There warn't no one near, except some
onethat was evidently a-callin' adog somewheres out back
ofthegardings inthe Park road. Once ortwice I went out
stopped. Justbeforetwelveo'clock I justtookalookround
ing."
"One ofourgard'ners was a-comin' 'omeaboutthattime
from a 'armony, when he sees abig grey dog comin' out
throughthegarding 'edges.Atleast,sohesays, butIdon't
givemuch forit myself, for if he did 'e never said aword
beenupallnight-a-huntin' of the Park for Bersicker, that
the'armony'ad gotintohis 'ead."
escapeof thewolf?"

"Well, sir," he said, with a suspicious sort of modesty,
withthetheory."
rate, who is evento try?"
"Well then, sir, I accounts for it this way; it seems to
getout."
laughedatthejoke Icould seethat it haddone service be-
rate sell. I couldn't cope in badinage with the worthy
Thomas, but I thought I knewa surer way to his heart, so
Isaid:-
"Now, Mr. Bilder, we'll consider that first half-
be claimedwhenyou'vetold me whatyou thinkwill hap-
pen."
"Right y'are, sir," he said briskly. "Ye'll excoose me, I
at me, whichwasasmuchastelling me to go on."
"Well, I never!" saidtheold lady.
"My opinion is this: that 'ere wolf is a-'idin' of, some-
wheres. The gard'ner wot didn't remember said he was
don'tbelieve him, for,yer see, sir, wolves don't gallop no
morenordogs does, they not bein' builtthat way. Wolves
up,whateveritis.But, Lor' blessyou, inreal life a wolf is
only a low creature, not half so clever or bold as a good
ain'tbeenusedto fightin' or even to providin' for hisself,
istogethisbreakfast from;ormaybehe'sgotdown some

LETTERS , ETC. 153
arum start when she sees his green eyes a-shining at her
perambulator-well, then I shouldn't be surprised if the
census isonebabbytheless. That's all."
facedoubleditsnaturallength withsurprise.
"God bless me!" he said. "If there ain't old Bersicker
come backby 'isself!"
proceeding it seemedto me. I have always thought that a
pronounced durability is between us; a personal experi-
After all, however, thereis nothing likecustom, for nei-
Red Riding Hood's quondam friend, whilst moving her
confidence inmasquerade.
Old Bilder examined him all over with mosttender solici-
"There, I knew the poor old chap would get into some
kind of trouble;didn't Isay itallalong? Here's his head
some bloomin' wall or other. It's a shyme that people are
allowed to top their walls with broken bottles. This 'ere's
what comes of it. Come along, Bersicker."

port.
Icame off, too, to report the only exclusive information
Zoo.
Dr. Seward'sDiary.
17 September.-I was engagedafterdinner in mystudy
postingupmy books, which, through press of other work
tient, withhisfacedistortedwith passion. I was thunder-
struck, for such a thing as a patient getting of his own
accord intothe Superintendent'sstudyisalmost unknown.
too strong for me, however; for before I could get my
severely. Before he could strike again, however, I got in
thecarpet. I sawthatmy friend was not intent on further
awary eye on the prostrate figure allthe time. When the
his employment positively sickened me. He was lying on
hisbellyonthe floorlicking up, like adog, thebloodwhich
hadfallen frommywoundedwrist. Hewas easily secured,
thelife!Theblood isthe life!"
me, so I need not forego my sleep; to-night I could not
welldowithoutit.

LETTERS , ETC. 155
(Sent to Carfax, Sussex, as no county given;delivered
lateby twenty-twohours.)
"17 September. Do not fail to be at Hillingham to-
Shallbewithyouas soonaspossibleafter arrival."
Dr. Seward'sDiary.
18September. Justofffortrainto London. Thearrival
but what may havehappened? Surelythere is some horri-
should thwartusinallwetrytodo.Ishalltakethis cylin-
phonograph.
strength towrite,but itmustbedone if Idie in thedoing.
Iwenttobedasusual,takingcarethattheflowers were
Iwas wakedbythe flapping atthe window, which had
begunafterthatsleep-walking onthe cliff atWhitbywhen
afraid, but I did wish that Dr. Seward was in the next
mighthavecalledhim. Itried togo tosleep, butcouldnot.
termined to keep awake. Perversely sleep would try to

bery I heard a sort of howl like adog's, but more fierce
could see nothing, except a big bat, which had evidently
been buffeting its wings against the window. So I went
backtobedagain,butdeterminednottogoto sleep. Pres-
wont:-
thatyou wereallright."
down beside me; shedid not take off her dressing gown,
she lay quiet; but Icould hear her poor dear heart still
beating terribly. After a while there was the low howl
on the floor. The window blind blewback with the wind
therewas the head of agreat, gaunt grey wolf. Mother
Amongst otherthings, she clutchedthe wreath of flowers
horrible gurgling inher throat; then she fell over as if
round seemed to spin round. I kept my eyes fixed on the

LETTERS , ETC. 157
myriadof littlespecks seemedtocomeblowing inthrough
the pillar of dust that travellers describe when there is a
simoon in the desert. I tried to stir, but there was some
to grow cold already for her dear heart had ceased to
while.
Thetimedidnot seem long,but very, very awful, till I
recovered consciousness again. Somewhere near, a passing
bell was tolling; the dogs all round the neighbourhood
nightingale seemed likethe voiceofmydeadmother come
backtocomfort me. The sounds seemed to have awakened
the maids, too, for I could hear their bare feet pattering
lay over me on the bed, they screamed out. The wind
slammed to. Theylifted offthebody of my dear mother,
dearmother'sbreast. Whentheywerethere I remembered
tositupwithmenow. I was surprisedthatthe maidsdid
tothedining-roomto look for them.
four lay helpless on the floor, breathing heavily. The de-
sideboard, I found that the bottle which mother's doctor

uses for her-oh! diduse was empty. Whatam I todo?
what am I to do? I am back in the room with mother. I
wolf through the broken window.
dim. What am I to do? God shield me from harm this
night! I shallhidethis paper in mybreast, wherethey shall
find it when they come to lay me out. My dear mother
gone! It is time that I go too. Good-bye, dearArthur, if I
helpme!

CHAPTER XII
DR. SEWARD'S DIARY
rivedearly. Keepingmycabatthegate, I went up the ave-
drawing tight around us? Was it indeed ahouse of death
to which I had come, too late? I knew that minutes, even
porch. As I didso, Iheard the rapidpit-pat of a swiftly
Whenhesawme, hegasped out:-
too late? Didyou notgetmytelegram?"
ashesaid solemnly:-

"Then I fear wearetoo late. God's willbedone!" With
hisusualrecuperative energy, hewent on: "Come. Ifthere
be noway open to get in, we must make one. Time is all
in allto us now."
We went round to the back of the house, where there
wasakitchenwindow.TheProfessortookasmall surgical
iron bars which guarded the window. I attacked them at
with along, thinknife wepushed back the fastening of
dimly litby rays of lightthrough the shutters, found four
or two we paused at thedoor to listen, but there was no
How shall I describewhatwesaw? Onthe bed lay two
had been blown back by the draught through the broken
window, showingthedrawn,white face,withalookofter-
ror fixed upon it. By her side lay Lucy, with face white
throat was bare, showing the two little wounds which we
gled. Without a word the Professor bent over the bed,
hisheadalmosttouching poor Lucy's breast; thenhe gave
ingtohis feet, hecried outto me:-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 161
ter of sherry which I found onthetable. The maids were
narcotic was wearingoff. Idid not stay to make sure, but
wakethose maids.Flicktheminthe face with a wettowel,
warmbath. This poor soul is nearly as coldas that beside
more."
drug had evidently affected her more strongly, so I lifted
it. Whilst we were busy chafing her limbs there was a
come with a message from Mr. Holmwood. I bade her
simplytellhimtthhaatthemust wait, for wecouldsee no one
I never saw inall my experience the Professor work in
such deadly earnest. I knew-as he knew that it was a
thesternestlook thathisfacecould wear:-
"If that were all, I would stop here where we are now,

overherhorizon." He wentonwithhis work with, if pos-
was beginning to be of some effect. Lucy's heart beat a
sheet to dry her he saidto me:-
"The first gain isours! Check to theKing!"
we had ever seen her.
"We must consult as to what is to be done," he said as
wedescended the stairs. Inthehallhe openedthedining-
behind him. The shutters had been opened, but the blinds
were alreadydown, with that obediencetothe etiquette of
rigidly observes. The room was, therefore, dimly dark. It
sing's sternness was somewhat relieved by a look of per-
plexity. He was evidently torturing his mind about some-
"What are we to do now? Where are we to turn for
chase. You are exhausted already; I am exhausted too. I
feartotrustthosewomen,eveniftheywouldhavecourage
to submit. What are we to do for some one who will open
his veins forher?"

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 163
"I gueessssArt is thecause."
tion. Send me word how Lucy is. Do not delay.-HOLM-
WOOD."
"I think I camejustinthe nickof time. You know you
haveonlyto tell me what todo."
him straight intheeyes as he said:-
take. Well, the devil may work against us for all he's
Once again we went through that ghastly operation. I
havenottheheartto gothrough withthedetails. Lucyhad
for though plenty of blood went into her veins, her body
didnot respond to the treatment as well as on the other
occasions.Herstrugglebackintolifewas something fright-
faint becamea profound slumber. The Professor watched
one of the maids to pay off one of the cabmen who were
waiting. I leftQuincey lyingdown after having a glass of
faction inhis face, as of one who hashad adoubt solved.

Lucy's breastwhenwecarriedher to thebath."
When I had read it, I stood looking at the Professor,
thepaper,saying:-
"Do not troubleabout itnow. Forget it for thepresent.
again.
"Icame to speakaboutthecertificateofdeath. If wedo
thatpaperwouldhavetobe produced. Iam inhopes that
weneedhaveno inquest, forifwehaditwould surelykill
theotherdoctor who attendedher knows, that Mrs. Wes-
taker."
"Good,ohmyfriendJohn!Wellthoughtof! TrulyMiss
Lucy, if she be sad inthe foesthatbeset her, is at least
happyinthefriendsthatloveher. One, two,three,allopen
friend John; I am notblind! I loveyou allthemore for
it! Nowgo."
In the hall I met Quincey Morris, with atelegram for
Arthur telling him that Mrs. Westenra was dead; that
said:-
"Whenyoucomeback, Jack,may Ihavetwowordswith
with the local undertaker to come up in the evening to

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 165
When IgotbackQuinceywas waiting forme. Itoldhim
seemingly had not moved from his seat at her side. From
his putting his finger to his lips, I gathered that he ex-
into the breakfast-room, where the blinds were notdrawn
saidto me:-
where I've no right to be; but this is no ordinary case.
ious about her all the same. What is it that's wrong with
that-said, thattimeyoutwocameintothe room, thatyou
know what they consult about in private. But this is no
Is not that so?"
readywhat Ididto-day. Is not that so?"
"That's so."
daysagodownathisownplacehelookedqueer. Ihavenot
in a night. One of those big bats that they call vampires
theveinleftopen, therewasn't enough blood inher to let
lay.Jack, ifyoumaytellmewithout betraying confidence,
Arthurwasthefirst,isnotthatso?" Ashespokethepoor

of it, too-to keep him from breaking down. I paused be-
which the Professor wished kept secret; but already he
phrase: "That's so."
"About tendays."
"Ten days! Then I guess, Jack Seward, that that poor
pretty creature that we all lovehashadput into her veins
her whole body wouldn't hold it." Then, coming close to
me, hespoke in a fiercehalf-whisper: "Whattook it out?"
as to Lucybeingproperlywatched. Buttheseshallnotoc-
cur again.Herewe stayuntil allbe well-or ill." Quincey
When shewokelateintheafternoon, Lucy's firstmove-
The careful Professor had replaced it where it had come
from, lest on waking she should be alarmed. Her eye then
so we tried what we couldto comfort her. Doubtless sym-
pathyeasedhersomewhat,butshewasverylow inthought
We told her that either or both of us would now remain
Towards dusk she fellinto a doze. Here a very odd thing

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 167
occurred. Whilst still asleep shetook thepaper from her
tookthepieces fromher.Allthe same,however, she went
on with the action of tearing, asthough the material were
buthe said nothing.
19 September. All last night sheslept fitfully, being al
we never left her for amomentunattended. Quincey Mor-
ris said nothing about his intention, but I knew that all
When the day came, its searching light showed the rav-
ages in poor Lucy's strength. She was hardly able to turn
open mouth showed the pale gums drawn back from the
usual; when she woke the softness of her eyes evidently
thoughadying one.Inthe afternoon sheasked forArthur,
at the station.
cheeks. Whenhesawher,Arthur wassimply choking with
passed, the fits of sleep, or the comatose condition that
passed for it, hadgrown more frequent, so that thepauses
when conversation was possible were shortened. Arthur's

as cheerilyashecould,sothatthebest was made of every-
thing.
six o'clock they are to try to rest. I fear that to-morrow
will end our watching, for the shock has been too great;
Letter, Mina Harker to Lucy Westenra.
(Unopenedby her.)
"17September.
"Mydearest Lucy,-
I wrote. You will pardon me, I know, for all my faults
whenyouhavereadallmybudgetof news. Well, Igotmy
attack of gout, Mr. Hawkins. He took us to his house,
me. Ihaveleftto me neither chicknor child; allaregone,
ningwas avery, veryhappy one.
"So here we are, installed in this beautiful old house,
see the great elms of the cathedral close, with their great

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 169
clients.
"Howisyourdearmothergettingon?IwishIcouldrun
up to town for a day or two to see you, dear, but I dare
on his bones again, but he was terribly weakened by the
long illness; even now he sometimes starts outofhis sleep
toldyoumy news, let me ask yours. Whenareyou tobe
vatewedding? Tellmeallaboutit,dear;tell me all about
everything, for thereisnothing which interests you which
spectfulduty,'butIdonotthinkthat is good enough from
allblessingsonyou.
"Yours,
"MINA HARKER."
ReportfromPatrickHennessey,M. D.,M. R. C. S. L. K.
Q. C.P. I., etc, etc., toJohn Seward, M. D.
"20 September.
"My dear Sir,-
conditions ofeverythingleftinmycharge.... With re-
gardtopatient, Renfield, thereismoretosay. He has had
ing,butwhich,asitfortunatelyhappened, wasunattended
with two men made a call at the empty house whose
grounds abut on ours-the house to which, you will re

gers. I was myself looking outofthestudywindow, hav-
the house. As he passed the window of Renfield's room,
who seemed a decent fellow enough, contented himself by
telling himto"shutup fora foul-mouthed beggar," where-
of a place he had got to by saying: 'Lor' bless yer, sir, I
wouldn't mind what was said to me in a bloomin' mad-
house with a wild beast like that.' Then he asked his way
thekind had ever occurred. I foundhim, to my astonish-
lievethathewascompletelyoblivious oftheaffair. Itwas,
This time he had broken out through the window of his
was intentonsomemischief. My fearwasjustified when I
saw the same cart which had passed before coming down
the road, having onitsomegreatwoodenboxes. The men
as if with violent exercise. Before I could get up to him

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 171
hadnot seizedhim justatthe moment Ibelieve he would
end of his heavy whip. It was a terrible blow; but he did
bothburly men. At first he was silent in his fighting; but
similar incoherent ravings. It was with very considerable
onwell.
"The two carriers were at first loud in their threats of
of the law on us. Their threats were, however, mingled
with some sort of indirect apology for the defeat of the
notbeen for the way their strength had been spent in car-
son for their defeat the extraordinary state of drouth to
which they had been reduced bythedusty nature of their
ure of meeting so 'bloomin' good a bloke' as your cor-
might be needed. They are as follows:-Jack Smollet, of
Dudding's Rents, King George's Road, Great Walworth,
BethnalGreen. Theyarebothintheemployment of Harris

ter's Yard, Soho.
"Believeme, dear Sir,
"Yours faithfully,
"PATRICK HENNESSEY."
Letter, Mina Harker to Lucy Westenra.
(Unopenedbyher.)
"18 September.
"My dearest Lucy,-
"Such a sad blow has befallenus. Mr. Hawkins hasdied
very suddenly. Somemaynotthinkitsosad forus, butwe
hadbothcometo solovehimthat itreallyseems as though
wehad losta father. I neverkneweither fatheror mother,
ple of our modest bringing up is wealthbeyond thedream
says theamount of responsibility which it puts upon him
makes him nervous. Hebegins todoubt himself. I try to
belief inhimself. Butitisherethatthegrave shockthathe
experienced tells upon him the most. Oh, it is too hard
that a sweet, simple, noble, strong nature such as his-
to rise from clerktomaster ina fewyears should be so
injuredthat the very essence of its strength is gone. For-
giveme, dear,if Iworryyou withmytroublesinthemidst
of your own happiness; but, Lucy dear, I must tell some

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 173
do the day after to-morrow; for poor Mr. Hawkins left
inhis willthat he was to be buried in the grave with his
to be chief mourner. I shall try to run over to see you,
dearest, if only for a fewminutes. Forgive me for troub-
ling you. With all blessings,
"Your loving
"MINA HARKER."
Dr. Seward'sDiary.
itself, that I would not care if I heard this moment the
been flapping those grim wings to some purpose of late-
...
getonwithmy work.
asthat tax onyour strength that we know of. You must
alarms. Come to the drawing-room, where there is abig
Arthurwentoff with him, castingback alonging look on
toseethatall was as it shouldbe. Icould seethat thePro-
fessorhadcarriedoutinthisroom, as inthe other, hispur-
pose of usingthe garlic; the whole of the window-sashes

rough chaplet of the same odorous flowers. Lucy was
worst, for the open mouth showed the pale gums. Her
shemoved uneasily. Atthesame momenttherecame a sort
ofdull flapping orbuffeting atthe window. I went over to
made by a great bat, which wheeled round doubtless at-
again struck the window with its wings. When I came
had torn away the garlic flowers from her throat. I re-
guidly. There did not seem to be with her now the
so marked herillness. It struckme as curiousthatthemo-
ment she became conscious she pressed the garlic flowers
close to her. It was certainly odd that whenever she got
into that lethargic state, withthe stertorous breathing, she
put the flowers from her; but that when she waked she
clutched them close. There was no possibility of making
on. When he saw Lucy's face I could hear the sissing in-
Icouldhearhisejaculation,"MeinGott!" as it was smoth

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 175
noticed some queer chill came over me.
The wounds on the throat had absolutely disappeared.
her, with his face at its sternest. Then he turned to me
"She is dying. It willnot be long now. It willbe much
difference, mark me, whether she dies conscious or in
for a moment, but when he saw the sunlight streaming in
through the edges ofthe shutters he thought he was late,
sofa, where he remained,perhaps aminute, withhis head
buried, praying, whilst his shoulders shook with grief. I
"mydear old fellow, summonallyour fortitude: it willbe
Helsinghad, withhisusual forethought,beenputtingmat-
possible. He hadevenbrushed Lucy's hair, so thatitlay on
thepillow in its usual sunny ripples. When we came into
softly:-
"Arthur! Oh, my love, I am sogladyou have come!"
itwillcomforthermore.'
which I had noticed inthe night. Her breathing grew ster

sort of sleep-waking, vague, unconscious way she opened
in a soft, voluptuous voice, such as I had never heard
fromher lips:-
"Arthur! Oh, my love, I am so glad you have come!
Kissme!".Arthurbenteagerlyovertokissher; butatthat
neck with a fury of strength which I never thought he
across the room.
"Not for your life!" he said; "not for your living soul
Arthur was sotakenabac:kthathedid notfora moment
wesawaspasmasofrageflit likeashadow overher face;
the sharp teeth champed together. Then her eyes closed,
Very shortly after she opened her eyes in all their
kissed it. "Mytrue friend," she said, in a faint voice, but
once."
allatonceit ceased.

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY
downtosee.
some of their flowing lines; even the lips had lost their
deadly pallor. It was as if the blood, no longer needed
for the workingoftheheart,had goneto make the harsh-
ness of death aslittle rude as might be.
"We thought her dying whilst she slept,
"Ah, well, poor girl, there is peace for her at last. It
is the end!"
"Notso; alas! notso.Itisonlythebeginning!"

CHAPTER XIII
DR. SEWARD'S DIARY-continued.
dertaker proved that his staff were afflicted or blessed-
with something of his own obsequious suavity. Even the
marked to me, ina confidential, brother-professional way,
when she had come out from the death-chamber:-
"She makes a very beautiful corpse, sir. It's quite a
privilegeto attendonher.It's nottoo muchtosaythatshe
will do credit to our establishment!"
was possible from the disordered state of things in the
had tobebackthe next day to attend at his father's fun-
took ituponourselves to examine papers, etc. He insisted
uponlooking over Lucy'spapers himself. I asked him why,
for I feared thathe, being a foreigner, might not be quite
me:-
"I know; Iknow.You forgetthat I am alawyer aswell
as a doctor. But this is not altogether for the law. You
knew that, when you avoided the coroner. I have more
this."
As he spoke he took from his pocket-book the memo-
had torn inher sleep.

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 179
may be. It is not well that her very thoughts go into the
papers were in order; explicit directions regarding the
placeofburial were given. I had hardly sealed the letter,
saying:-
my service is toyou."
"Haveyou gotwhatyou looked for?" I asked, to which
he replied:-
me:-
morrow we shall have much to do, but for the to-night
there is no need of us. Alas!"
Before turning in we went to look at poor Lucy. The
undertakerhadcertainlydonehisworkwell, forthe room
wasturned into a smallchapelle ardente. There was a wil-
as little repulsive as might be. The end of the winding-
sheetwas laid overthe face;whenthe Professorbent over
note it well. All Lucy's loveliness hadcome backtoher in
traces of "decay's effacing fingers," had but restored the

beauty of life, till positively I could not believe my eyes
that I was looking at a corpse.
The Professor looked sternly grave. He had not loved
bed. Then he took from his neck, inside his collar, a little
I was undressing in my own room, when, with a pre-
to speak:-
set of post-mortem knives."
makethe rest shudder.Oh,butImustnot forget, mydear
would like to do it to-night, but for Arthur I must not;
we alone."
"But why do it at all? The girl is dead. Why mutilate
Without such it is monstrous."
with infinite tenderness :-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 181
love you the more because it does so bleed. If I could, I
would take on myself the burden that you do bear. But
there are things that you know not, but that you shall
I believe in all I do. Was it not for these causes that you
send for me when the great trouble came? Yes! Were
you not amazed, nay horrified, when I would not let
to her, that so she closed her eyes grateful?Yes!
have well doubt. Believe me yet a little, friend John. If
matter trust or no trust-without my friend trust in me,
butone, that so we work to agood end. Willyou nothave
faith in me?"
close the door. As I stood without moving, I saw one of
the maids pass silently along the passage-she had her
where Lucy lay. The sighttouchedme.Devotionis so rare,
those we love. Here was a poor girl putting aside the ter-
rors which she naturally had of death to go watch alone
by the bier of the mistress whom she loved, so that the
poorclaymightnotbe lonelytilllaidtoeternal rest.
...

"You need not trouble about the knives; we shall not
do it."
"Why not?" I asked. For his solemnity of the night be-
fore had greatly impressed me.
"Because," he said sternly, "it istoo late ortoo early.
See!" Here he held up the little golden crucifix. "This
was stolen in the night."
"How, stolen," I asked in wonder, "since you have it
now?"
"Because I get it back from the worthless wretch who
ing. Her punishment will surely come, but not through
knowing, she only stole. Now we must wait."
He went away on the word, leaving me with a new
The forenoon was adreary time,butat noonthe solici-
to details. During lunch he told us that Mrs. Westenra
had for some time expected sudden death from her
formed us that, with the exception of a certain entailed
property of Lucy's father's whichnow, indefault ofdirect
Arthur Holmwood. When he had told us so much he went
on:-
might leave her daughter either penniless or not so free
Indeed, we pressed the matter so farthat we almost came
intocollision, forshe asked us if we were or were not pre-
pared to carry out her wishes. Of course, we had then no

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 183
ninety-ninetimesoutof a hundredwe should haveproved,
by the logic of events, the accuracy of our judgment.
form of disposition would have rendered impossible the
carrying out of her wishes. For by her predeceasing her
daughterthelatterwouldhavecomeintopossession ofthe
five minutes, her property would, in case there were no
-have been treated at her decease as under intestacy. In
which case Lord Godalming, though so dear a friend,
I assure you, my dear sirs, I am rejoiced at the result,
perfectly rejoiced."
Hewas a good fellow, buthis rejoicingatthe one little
part-inwhich he was officially interested of so great a
Hedid not remain long, but saidhewould look inlater
hadbeen a certaincomforttous,since itassuredus that
of our acts. Arthur was expected at five o'clock, so a little
before that time we visited the death-chamber. It was so
it. The undertaker, true to his craft, had made the best
explaining that, as LordGodalmingwascoming verysoon,
1 it would be less harrowing to his feelings to see all that
things to the condition in which we left them the night
before, so that when Arthur came such shocks to his feel-
ingsas wecould avoid were saved.

whatunderthe strainof his much-tried emotions. He had,
Helsing he was sweetly courteous; but I could not help
seeing that there was someconstraint with him. The Pro-
I felthewould liketobe quitealonewithher, but hetook
"You loved her too, old fellow; she told me all about
ing:-
"Oh, Jack! Jack! What shall I do! The whole of life
wideworld formetolive for."
Icomforted him as well as I could. In such cases men
softly to him:-
lawn from her face. God! how beautiful she was. Every
ague. At last, after a long pause, he said to me in a faint
whisper:-
"Jack, is she really dead?"
gest-for I feltthat such ahorribledoubt shouldnothave
resolved into theiryouthfulbeauty;thatthiswasespecially

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 185
toldhimthatthat mustbegood-bye, as the coffin hadtobe
came away, fondly looking back over his shoulder at her
as he came.
thathehadsaidgood-bye; sothe latter wenttothe kitchen
to tell the undertaker's men to proceed with the prepara-
plied:-
"I am not surprised. Just now I doubted for a moment
myself!"
been silent alldinner-time; but whenwe had lit our cigars
he said:-
"Lord "; butArthurinterrupted him:-
onlybecause myloss is so recent."
"I only used that name because I was indoubt. I must
dear boy, to love you as Artthhuurr.""
warmly.
"Call me whatyou will," he said. "I hope I may always
so-you remember"-the Professor nodded-"you must
forgiveme."

"I know itwas hard foryouto quite trust methen, for
through. Then you shall bless me from first to last for
saketo whom I sworeto protect."
hers. You shalldo whatyou like."
The Professor cleared his throat acouple of times, as
"May I ask you something now?"
"Certainly."
"You know that Mrs. Westenra left you all her prop-
erty?"
"No, poor dear; I never thought of it."
curiosity. I have a motive of which, be sure, she would
have approved. I have them all here. I took them before
soul. I shall keep them, if I may; even you may not see
themyet,but I shallkeepthem safe. Nowordshallbe lost;
ahard thing I ask, but you willdo it, will you not, for
Lucy's sake?"
Arthur spokeoutheartily, like his old self:-
in saying this I am doing what my dear one would have
approved. I shall not trouble you with questions till the
time comes."

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 187
The old Professorstoodup as he saidsolemnly:-
it will not be all pain, nor will this pain be the last. We
pass through the bitter water before we reach the sweet.
room where Lucy lay in her coffin, strewn with the wild
rose, a heavy, overpowering smell into the night.
Mina Harker's Journal.
ing.
It seems only yesterday that the last entry was made,
Somedayhemayaskme about it. Downitallgoes. I am
does for us-so it may be as well to freshen it up again
was gone from us....
Wecame backto town quietly, taking a'bus to Hyde
go into the Row for a while, so we sat down; but there

way he used to in the old days before I went to school.
wewalked. I was looking at a verybeautifulgirl, in abig
asked him what it was that disturbed him.
pointedbeard, who was also observing the pretty girl. He
was looking at her so hard that he did not see either of
bigwhite teeth, that looked allthe whiter because his lips
staringat him, till I was afraid he would notice. I feared
dently thinking that I knew as much about it as he did:
"Do you see who it is?"
"No, dear," I said;"Idon'tknowhim; who is it?" His
ifhedid not know that it was to me, Mina, to whom he
was speaking:-
The poor dear was evidently terrified at something-
verygreatly terrified; I do believe that if he had not had

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 189
carriage moved up Piccadilly he followed in the same di-
"I believe it is the Count,but he has grown young. My
God, ifthisbe so! Oh, my God! my God! If I onlyknew!
if I only knew!" He was distressing himself somuch that
I feared to keep his mind on the subject by asking him
a comfortable seat ina shadyplace. After a few minutes'
quietly into a sleep, with his head on my shoulder. I
thought it was the best thing for him, so did not disturb
quite cheerfully:-
"Why, Mina, have I been asleep! Oh, do forgive me for
where." He had evidently forgotten all about the dark
episode had reminded him of. I don't like this lapsing into
forgetfulness; it maymakeor continue some injury to the
brain. I must not ask him, for fear I shalldo more harm
journey abroad. The time is come, I fear, when I must
you will, I know, forgive me if I do wrong, but it is for
yourowndear sake.
4 Later. A sad home-coming in every way-the house
be:-
"You will be grieved to hear that Mrs. Westenra died
They werebothburied to-day."
Oh,whatawealth of sorrowin a few words!PoorMrs.
Westenra! poor Lucy! Gone, gone, never to return to us!

his life! Godhelpusalltobear our troubles.
Dr. Seward's Diary.
22 September. It is all over. Arthur has gone back to
fellow is Quincey! I believe inmyheartof hearts that he
bore himself through it like a moral Viking. If America
preparatory to his journey. He goes over to Amsterdam
to-night, but says he returns to-morrownight; thathe only
he has work to do in London which may take him some
time. Poor old fellow! I fear that the strain of the past
week has broken down even his iron strength. All the
timeof theburialhewas, I couldsee,putting some terrible
ing beside Arthur, who, poor fellow, was speaking of his
he felt since then as if they two had been really married
were alone inthecarriagehe gave way to a regular fit of
hysterics. He has denied tome since that it was hysterics,
ing itself under very terrible conditions. He laughed till

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 191
time. His reply was in away characteristic of him, for it
"Ah, you don't comprehend, friend John. Do not think
that I am not sad, though I laugh. See, I have cried even
when the laugh did choke me. But no more think that I
am all sorry when I cry, for the laugh he comes just the
same. Keep it always with you that laughter who knock
like. He ask no person; he choose no time of suitability.
Hesay, 'I amhere.' Behold, inexample Igrieve myheart
out forthat so sweetyoung girl; I give my blood forher,
say 'Thud! thud!' to myheart,till itsend backthe blood
from my cheek. My heart bleed for that poor boy-that
dear boy, so of the age of mine own boy had I been so
-not even to you, friend John, for we are more level in
together to the music that he make with that smileless
ropes drawn tight with strainthatpullusdifferent ways.

labour, what it maybe."
Idid not like to wound him by pretending not to see
"Oh, it was thegrim irony of it all this so lovely lady
by one we wondered if she were truly dead; she laid in
that so finemarblehouse inthat lonely churchyard, where
isdead; so! Is it not?"
Why,his heart was simply breaking."
to her veins had made her truly his bride?"
"Quite so. But there was adifficulty, friend John. If so
that, then what about the others? Ho, ho! Then this so
deadto me, but alive by Church's law, though no wits, all
wife, am bigamist."
"I don't see where the joke comes in there either!" I
said:-
"Friend John, forgive me if I pain. I showed not my
feeling to others when it would wound, but only to you,

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 193
could have done so when the laugh arrived; if you could
for a long, longtime-maybeyou would perhaps pity me
the mostof all."
why.
"Because I know!"
loneliness will sit over our roofs with brooding wings.
Lucy lies in the tomb of her kin, a lordly death-house in
a lonely churchyard, away from teeming London; where
is told, ere I go back to take up the thread of my life-
"FINIS."
"The Westminster Gazette," 25 September
A HAMPSTEAD MYSTERY.
The neighbourhood of Hampsteadisjust at present ex-
ercised with a series of events which seem to run on lines
paralleltothoseofwhatwas knowntothe writers ofhead-
lines as "The Kensington Horror," or "The Stabbing
or three days several cases have occurred of young chil-
drenstraying fromhome orneglectingto return fromtheir
playing on the Heath. In allthese cases the children were
themselves, buttheconsensus of their excuses is thatthey
had been with a"bloofer lady." It has always been late in
sions the children have not been found until early in the

following morning. It is generally supposed in the neigh-
bourhood that, as the first child missedgave ashis reason
for being away that a "bloofer lady" had asked him to
used it as occasion served. This isthe more naturalas the
favourite game of the little ones at present is luring each
other awaybywiles.Acorrespondent writesus thatto see
someofthetinytotspretendingtobethe"bloofer lady" is
supremely funny. Someofourcaricaturistsmight, hesays,
take a lesson in the irony of grotesque by comparing the
Our correspondent naïvely says that even Ellen Terry
could not be so winningly attractive as some of these
themselves to be.
There is, however, possibly a serious side to the ques-
tion, for some of the children, indeed all who havebeen
missedatnight,havebeenslightlytornor wounded inthe
throat. The wounds seem such as might be madeby a rat
them has asystemormethod of its own. Thepoliceofthe
division have been instructed to keep a sharp look-out
maybeabout.
"The Westminster Gazette," 25 September.
Extra Special
THE HAMPSTEAD HORROR.
The "Bloofer Lady."
missed last night, was onlydiscovered late inthemorning

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 195
under a furze bush at the Shooter's Hill side of Hamp-
otherparts. Ithasthesametinywoundinthethroatas has
lookedquiteemaciated.Ittoo,whenpartiallyrestored,had.
the common story to tell of being iured away by the
"bloofer lady."

CHAPTER XIV
MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL
am so glad that he has plenty of work to do, for that
joiced thathe is not now weighed down with the respon-
sibility of his new position. I knew he would be true to
all ways with the duties that come upon him. He will be
away all day till late, for he said he could not lunch at
home. My household work is done, so I shall take his
it.
24 September.-I hadn't the heart to write last night;
How he must have suffered, whether it be true or only
things, or had he some cause for it all? I suppose I shall
never know, for I dare not open the subject to him.
...
tainofhim. Poor fellow! I suppose itwas the funeral
... He believes it all himself. I remember how on our
wedding-day he said: "Unless some solemnduty comeup-
on me to go back to the bitter hours, asleep or awake,
of continuity. That fearful Count was coming to
...
if itcome wemust not shrink from it.... I shallbe pre-

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 197
"24 September.
(Confidence)
"Dear Madam,-
"I prayyou to pardon my writing, in that I am so far
friend as that I sent you sad news of Miss Lucy West-
enra's death. By the kindness of Lord Godalming, I am
I find some letters from you, which show how great
bythatlove, Iimploreyou, help me. It is for others' good
wasArthur of Miss Lucy). I must keep itprivate forthe
present from all. I should come to Exeter to see you at
when. I imploreyourpardon, madam. Ihave readyour let-
forgiveme.
"25 September. Cometo-daybyquarter-past tentrain
"WILHELMINA HARKER."

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL.
somehow I expectthatitwillthrow somelightuponJona-
the real truth now! How silly I am. That awful journal
something of its own colour. Of course it is about Lucy.
night on thecliffmusthave madeher ill. Ihadalmost for-
gotten inmy own affairs how ill she was afterwards. She
musthavetoldhim ofhersleep-walking adventure on the
were it even a negative one, brought harm on poor dear
I suppose a cry does us all good at times-clears the
air as other raindoes. Perhaps itwas reading the journal
the first time we have been parted since our marriage. I
doctorwillbe here soonnow. I shall say nothing of Jona-
written out myownjournal, sothat, incase heasks about

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 199
never have accepted even a possibility. Poor, poor, dear
God, all this maynot upsethim again. Ishall try to save
thedoubt which haunts him; that when the doubt is re-
moved, no matter which-waking or dreaming-may
to look after Lucy. I feel from having seen him that he
end. I used to think I would like topractice interviewing;
memory was everything in such work that you must be
able to put down exactly almost every word spoken, even
if you had to refine some of it afterwards. Here was a
rare interview; I shalltry to record it verbatim.
It was half-past two o'clock when the knock came. I
sing."
medium weight, stronglybuilt, with his shoulders set back
trunk as the head is on the neck. The poise of the head
alarge, resolute, mobile mouth, a good-sized nose, rather
straight, but with quick, sensitive nostrils, that seem to
ridges wide apart; such a forehead that the reddish hai!

said to me:-
"Mrs. Harker, is it not?" I bowed assent.
"That was Miss Mina Murray?" Again I assented.
"It is Mina Murray that I came to see that was friend
of that poor dear child Lucy Westenra. Madam Mina, it
ison account of the dead I come."
"Sir," I said, "you could have no better claim on me
tenderly:-
"Oh, Madam Mina, I knew that the friend of that
poorlilygirl mustbe good, but Ihadyettolearn " He
finishedhis speech with a courtlybow. I askedhim what it
"I have readyour letters to Miss Lucy. Forgive me, but
to ask. I know that you were with her at Whitby. She
sometimes kept a diary-you need not look surprised,
ence certain things to a sleep-walking in which she puts
downthat you saved her. Ingreat perplexity then I come
"Ah, thenyouhavegood memory for facts, fordetails?
It is not always so with young ladies."
show it toyou if you like."
"Oh, Madam Mina, I will be grateful; you will do
memuch favour." I couldnotresistthetemptationof mys-
tifyinghim abit-I suppose it issome ofthe taste ofthe
original apple that remains still in our mouths-so I
"May I read it?"

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL
him.
"Forgive me," I said: "I could not help it; but Ihad
been thinking that it was of dear Lucy thatyou wished to
my account, but because I know your time must be pre-
cious-I have writtenit out onthetypewriter foryou.' دو
some things when I have read."
wentto seeafterlunch chiefly inorderthathemightnotbe
disturbed. When I came back, I found him walking hur-
owe to you? This paper is as sunshine. It opens the gate
clouds roll in behind the light every time. But that you
you or yours, I trust you will let me know. It will be

be blessed inyou."
donotknow me.'
truth in every line. I, who have read your so sweet letter
you! Oh, Madam Mina, good women tell all their lives,
-tell me of him. Is he quite well? Is all that fever gone,
"He was almost recovered, but hehasbeen greatly up-
set by Mr. Hawkins's death." He interrupted:-
"Oh, yes, I know, I know. I have read your last two
letters." I went on:-
"I suppose this upset him, for when we were in town
on Thursday last he had a sort of shock."
good. What kind of ashockwas it?"
"He thought he saw some one who recalled something
thewhole thing seemed to overwhelm me in a rush. The
been brooding over me ever since, allcame inatumult.
IsupposeIwashysterical, for I threwmyself onmyknees
sweetness:-

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 203
that I have not had much time for friendships; but since
Ihavebeen summoned to hereby my friend John Seward
given me hope-hope, not in what I am seeking of, but
that there are good women still left to make life happy
good lesson forthe childrenthataretobe. Iamglad, glad,
that I may here be of some use to you; for if your hus-
experience, I promiseyouthat I will gladly do all for him
lifeahappyone. Nowyoumusteat. Youare overwrought
love, is not tohis good. Therefore for his sake you must
now we shall not speak of it, lest itdistress. I shall stay
yet. Youmust eat now; afterwards you shalltell me all."
After lunch, when we went backtothedrawing-room,
hesaidtome:-
beensinceyesterday in a sortof fever of doubt;youmust

دو
matter regarding which I am here, it is you who would
taken a weight off my mind. If you will let me, I shall
giveyouapapertoread. Itislong,butIhave typewritten
"I promise," he said as I gave himthe papers; "I shall
the quick 3:34 train, which will leaveyou at Paddington
before eight." He was surprised at my knowledge of the
sit here thinking-thinking I don't know what.
"25September, 6 o'clock.
"Dear Madam Mina,-
is true! I will pledge my life on it. It may be worse for
that one who woulddo as he did in goingdownthat wall

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 205
heart are all right; this I swear, before I have even seen
him; so be at rest. I shall have much to ask him of other
things. I am blessed that to-day I come to see you, for
I have learn all at once so much that again I am dazzle-
"Yours the most faithful,
"25 September, 6: 30 p. m.
I fear to think. I have this moment, whilst writing, had a
I shall have no fearto-night. Willyou, therefore, instead
of lunching with us, please come to breakfast at eight
if you are in ahurry, by the 10: 30train, whichwill bring
take it that, if I do not hear, you will come to breakfast.
"Believe me,
"MINA HARKER."
26 September. I thought never to write in this diary
again, butthetimehas come. When I got home last night
been about me. She showed me in the doctor's letter that
all I wrote down was true. It seems to have made a new

afraid, even of the Count. Hehas succeededafter all, then,
bring him over. . . .
He was, I think, surprised to see me. When I came
"But Madam Minatold me you were ill, thatyou had
had a shock." It was so funny to hear my wife called
"I was ill, I have had ashock; but you have cured me
already."
know what to trust, even the evidence of my own senses.
Not knowing what to trust, I did not know what to do;
beenthegrooveof mylife. Thegrooveceasedtoavailme,
is to doubt everything, even yourself. No, you don't; you
couldn't with eyebrows like yours." He seemed pleased,
"So! You are physiognomist. I learn more here with
each hour. I am with so muchpleasure coming to you to
him go on praising Mina for a day, so I simply nodded
"She is one of God's women, fashioned by His own

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 207
know you since some days from the knowing of others;
but I have seen your true self since last night. You will
forall our lives."
that it made me quite choky.
do".
"Look here, sir," I said, "does what you have to do
concern the Count?"
"It does," he said solemnly.
10:30 train, you will not have time to read them; but I
Afterbreakfast I sawhimtothe station. When we were
parting he said:-
take Madam Mina too."
"We shallboth comewhenyou will," I said.
at the carriage window, waiting for the train to start, he
wasturningthemover.Hiseyes suddenlyseemedtocatch
something in one of them, "The Westminster Gazette"—
Mein Gott! So soon! so soon!" I do not think he remem-
"Love to Madam Mina; I shall write so soon as ever I

Dr. Seward'sDiary.
26 September. Truly there is no such thing as final-
starting fresh again, or rather going on with the same
record. Until this afternoon I had no cause to think of
as he ever was. He was already well ahead with his fly
he isbearingupwonderfullywell. Quincey Morris is with
bling well of good spirits. Quincey wrote me a line too,
is at rest. As for myself, I was settling down to my work
with the enthusiasm which I used to have for it, so that I
might fairly have said that the wound which poor Lucy
left on me was becoming cicatrised. Everything is, how-
too, buthewillonlyletoutenough at atime to whet curi-
"What doyouthinkofthat?" heaskedas he stood back
I looked over the paper, for I reallydid not know what
graph about children being decoyed away at Hampstead.
It did not convey much to me, until I reached a passage
where it described small punctured wounds on their
said.
"It is likepoor Lucy's."
"Simplythat there is some cause incommon. Whatever

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 209
it was that injured her has injured them." I did not quite
"Thatis trueindirectly, butnotdirectly."
inclined to take his seriousness lightly-for, after all, four
doeshelpto restoreone's spirits-but when I saw his face,
it sobered me. Never, even in the midst of our despair
about poor Lucy, had he looked more stern.
aconjecture."
suspicion as to what poor Lucy died of; not after all the
hintsgiven, not onlybyevents, butby me?"
"Of nervous prostration followingongreatlossorwaste
ofblood."
your wit is bold; but you are too prejudiced. You do not
side your daily life is not of account to you. Do you not
becontemplatebymen'seyes,becausetheyknow orthink
theyknow-some things which othermen have toldthem.
explain. Butyet we see arounduseverydaythe growth of
yet but the old, which pretend to beyoung-like the fine
ladies at the opera. I suppose now you do not believe in
Nor in astral bodies. No? Nor inthe reading of thought.
No?Nor inhypnotism "
"Yes," I said. "Charcot has proved that pretty well."
He smiled as he went on: "Then you are satisfied as to it.

no more-! into the very soul of the patient that he influ-
ence. No?Then, friennddJohn,am Itotake itthatyou sim-
reject the thought reading. Let me tell you, my friend,
thattherearethingsdoneto-dayinelectrical sciencewhich
wouldhavebeendeemedunholybytheverymenwhodis-
covered electricity-who wouldthemselves not so long be-
fore have been burned as wizards. There are always
mysteries in life. Why was it that Methuselah lived nine
veins, couldnot live evenoneday? For, had she live one
more day, we could have save her. Do you know all the
great spider lived for centuries in the tower of the old
morning are found dead men, white as even Miss Lucy
was?"
"Good God, Professor!" I said, starting up. "Do you
that such athing ishere inLondoninthenineteenthcen-

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL
few who live on always if they be permit; that there are
science has vouched for the fact that there have been
so small hole that only hold him since the youth of the
fore?" Here I interrupted him. Iwas getting bewildered;
hesocrowdedonmymindhis listof nature's eccentricities
fired. I had adim ideathat he was teaching me some les-
son, as long ago he usedtodo inhis studyatAmsterdam;
butheusedthentotellmethething, sothat Icouldhave
theobject ofthought inmindallthetime. But now I was
"Professor, letmebeyourpetstudentagain. Tellme the
thesis, so that I mayapplyyourknowledgeasyou go on.
At present I amgoing inmymindfrompoint to point as
without knowingwhere I am going."
"That is good image," he said. "Well, I shall tell you.
"To believe what?"
faculty which enables us to believe things which we know
checkthe rush ofabig truth, like asmallrock does a rail-
way truck. We get the small truth first. Good! We keep
him think himself all the truth in the universe."

injure the receptivity of my mind with regard to some
"Ah,youaremyfavouritepupilstill.Itisworthtoteach
those so smallholes inthe children's throats were madeby
thesame that madethehole in Miss Lucy?"
"Then you are wrong. Oh, would it were so! but alas!
no. It isworse, far, farworse."
He threw himself with adespairinggesture into a chair,
"They were made by Miss Lucy!"

CHAPTER XV
DR. SEWARD'S DIARY-continued.
duringher life struck Lucy onthe face. I smote the table
calmed me at once. "Would I were!" he said. "Madness
were easy to bear compared with truth like this. Oh, my
friend, why, thinkyou, did I go so far round, why take so
long to tell you so simple athing? Was it because I hate
fearful death? Ah no!"
"Forgive me," said I. He went on:-
"My friend, it wasbecause Iwished to begentle in the
breaking toyou, for I know you have loved that so sweet
lady. But even yet I do not expectyouto believe. It is so
doubt such to be possible when we have always believed
the'no' of it; itis morehard still to accept so sad a con-
toprove it. Dareyoucomewithme?"
truth. Byron excepted fromthe category, jealousy.
ing from tussock to tussock in a misty bog. If it be not
true, thenproof willbe relief; at worst it will not harm. If

it be true! Ah, there is the dread; yet verydread should
helpmycause, forinitissome need of belief. Come, I tell
child inthehospital. Dr. Vincent, of the North Hospital,
think of yours sinceyou were inclass atAmsterdam. He
will let two scientists see his case, if he will not let two
friends. We shalltell him nothing, but only that we wish
churchyard where Lucy lies. This is thekey that lock the
ful ordeal before us. I could do nothing, however, so I
hasten, astheafternoonwaspassing.
tures.There wasnomistakingthesimilaritytothosewhich
edges looked fresher; that was all. We asked Vincent to
part, he was inclined to think that itwas one of the bats
which are so numerous on the northern heights of Lon-
be some wild specimen from the South of a more malig-
Gardens ayoung one may have got loose, or one be bred
there from a vampire. These things do occur, you know.
tracedup inthis direction. For a week after, the children
were playing nothing but Red Riding Hood on the Heath
came along, sincewhenithas beenquite agala-time with
them. Eventhispoor littlemite, whenhe woke up to-day,
askedthenurseif hemight goaway. Whenshe askedhim

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 215
'bloofer lady.'"
the child home you will caution its parents to keep strict
let itawayforsomedays?"
"Certainly not, not for a week at least; longer if the
wound isnothealed."
go on our way."
We dined at "Jack Straw's Castle" along with a little
Aboutteno'clock we startedfromtheinn.Itwasthenvery
when we were once outside their individual radius. The
Professor hadevidentlynotedthe road we were to go, for
hewent onunhesitatingly; but, as for me, I was in quite
amixupas tolocality.Aswewent further, we met fewer
whenwe met even thepatrol of horse police going their
churchyard, which weclimbed over. With some littlediffi-
back, politely, but quite unconsciously, motioned me t)
precede him. There was adelicious irony in the offer, in
thecourtliness of giving preference on such a ghastly oc-
tiously drew the door to, after carefully ascertaining that
case we should have been in abad plight. Then he fum-

clouded silver-plating gave back the feeble glimmer of a
have been imagined. It conveyed irresistibly the idea that
away.
holding it that the sperm dropped in white patches which
turnscrew.
"What are you going to do?" I asked.
"To open the coffin. You shall yet be convinced."
liftedoff the lid, showingthecasingoflead beneath. The
sightwas almosttoomuchfor me. Itseemedtobeasmuch
strippedoffher clothing inhersleep whilst living; I actu-
fret-saw. Striking the turnscrew through the lead with a
swift downward stab, which made me wince, he made a
small hole, which was, however, big enough to admit the
point of the saw. I had expected a rush of gas from the
week-old corpse. We doctors, who have had to study our
drew back towards the door. But the Professor never
stopped for a moment; he sawed down a couple of feet

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 217
to proceed in his task. "Are you satisfied now, friend
John?" heasked.
I felt all the dogged argumentativeness of my nature
"I am satisfiedthatLucy'sbodyisnotinthatcoffin; but
that only proves one thing."
"That it is notthere."
"That is goodlogic," hesaid,"so farasitgoes. But how
"Perhaps a body-snatcher," I suggested. "Some of the
undertaker's people may have stolen it." I felt that I was
could suggest. The Professor sighed. "Ah well!" he said,
"wemusthavemore proof. Come withme."
Heputonthecoffin-lid again, gatheredupallhis things
me the key, saying: "Willyou keep it? You had better be
assured." I laughed it was not a very cheerful laugh, I
amboundto say as I motioned him to keep it. "Akey is
isnotdifficult to pickalock of that kind." He said noth-
ing, but put the key in his pocket. Then he told me to
watchatonesideofthechurchyard whilsthe would watch
saw his dark figuremoveuntilthe intervening headstones
It was alonely vigil. Just after I had taken my place I
together Ihadadreary, miserabletime.
Suddenly, as I turned round, Ithought I saw something

like awhite streak, moving betweentwo darkyew-trees at
the side of the churchyard farthest fromthe tomb; at the
sametimeadarkmass moved fromthe Professor's side of
beyondalineof scatteredjuniper-trees, which markedthe
pathwaytothe church, a white,dim figure flitted in thedi-
rectionof thetomb. The tomb itself was hidden by trees,
the rustle of actual movement where I had first seen the
inhis armsatinychild. When he sawmeheheld itoutto
"Areyou satisfiednow?"
"No," I said, in a way that I felt was aggressive.
"Doyou notseethe child?"
wounded?" I asked.
pulsewe tookour way outof the churchyard, hecarrying
thesleepingchild.
kind.
We had now to decide what we were to do with the
police-station weshould haveto give some account of our
movementsduring the night; at least, we shouldhave had
tomakesomestatement as to how wehadcome tofind the
child. So finally we decided that we would take itto the
leave itwherehecould not failtofind it;we would then
seekourwayhomeasquicklyaswecould.Allfelloutwell.

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 219
dition.
27 September. It was two o'clock before we found a
suitable opportunity for our attempt. The funeral held at
mourners hadtaken themselves lazily away, when, looking
carefully from behind aclump of alder-trees, we saw the
sextonlockthegateafterhim. We knewthen that we were
safe till morningdid we desire it; but the Professor told
Again I felt that horrid sense of the reality of things, in
Irealiseddistinctlytheperils ofthe law whichwewere in-
curring inourunhallowed work. Besides, I felt it was all
so useless. Outrageous asitwas toopen aleadencoffin, to
seemed the height of folly to open the tomb again, when
we knew, from the evidence of our own eyesight, thatthe
own road, no matter who remonstrated. Hetookthekey,
precede. The placewas not sogruesome as last night, but
throughme.
There layLucy, seeminglyjustas wehad seenher the
night before her funeral. She was, if possible, more radi-
onthecheeks was a delicatebloom.

"Is this ajuggle?" I saidto him.
"Are you convinced now?" said the Professor in re-
showedthe white teeth.
bitten. Areyou of belief now, friend John?" Once more,
argumentativehostilitywoke withinme. I could notaccept
tempt to argue of which I was even at the moment
ashamed, Isaid:-
"Shemayhavebeenplacedheresincelastnight."
"I do not know. Some one has done it."
"Here, there is onethingwhich is different from all re-
corded; here is some dual life that is not as the common.
sleep-walking-oh, youstart;youdo notknowthat, friend
other. Usually when the Un-Dead sleep at home"-as he
spokehemade acomprehensive sweepof his arm todesig-
nate what to a vampire was "home"-"their face show
whattheyare,butthisso sweetthat was when she notUn-
Dead she go back to the nothings of the common dead.
sing's theories; but ifshe werereallydead, what wasthere

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 221
of terror in the idea of killing her? He lookedupat me,
most joyously:-
"Ah, youbelievenow?"
willing toaccept. How willyoudo this bloody work?"
as I had expected. I was, in fact, beginning to shudder at
jective, or allobjective?
buthestoodas if wrapped in thought. Presently he closed
what is best. If I did simply follow my inclining I would
donow, atthis moment, what is to be done; but there are
more difficult inthatthemwe do not know. This is simple.
him ofthis? Ifyou, whosawthewoundson Lucy's throat,
Arthur, who know none of those things, to believe? He
doubted me when I tookhim from herkiss when she was
dying. I know he has forgivenme because in some mis-
taken idea I have done things that prevent him say good-
mistake of all wehavekilled her. He will then argue back

that it is we, mistaken ones, that have killed her by our
that will paint his dreams with horrors of what she must
more do I know that he must pass through the bit-
ter waters to reach the sweet. He,poor fellow, must have
one hour that will make the very face of heaven grow
him peace. My mind is made up. Let us go. You return
As for me, I shall spend the night here in this church-
yard in my own way. To-morrow night you will come to
me to the Berkeley Hotel atten of theclock. I shall send
America that gavehisblood. Later we shall have work to
for Imustbebackherebeforethesunset."
drovebackto Piccadilly.
Hotel, directed to John Seward, M. D.
(Notdelivered.)
"27 September.
"Friend John,—
to watch in that churchyard. It pleases me that the Un-
Dead, Miss Lucy, shall not leave to-night, that so onthe
morrow nightshemaybe moreeager. Therefore Ishall fix
seal up the door of the tomb. She isyoung as Un-Dead,

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 223
be aught that may be learned I shall learn it. For Miss
Lucy or fromher, Ihave nofear;butthat othertowhom
is there that she is Un-Dead, he have now the power to
have fooled us when he played with us for Miss Lucy's
men; even we four who gave our strength to Miss Lucy
I know not what. So ifitbe thathe come thither onthis
night he shall find me; but none other shall until it be
toolate. But it maybe that he will not attempt the place.
There is no reason why he should; his hunting ground is
"Therefore I write this in case. Take the papers
thattheworldmayrest from him.
"If it be so, farewell.
Dr. Seward's Diary.
28 September. It is wonderful what a good night's
sleepwilldo forone. Yesterday Iwasalmost willing to ac-
tostartout luridbefore meas outrages on common sense.
Ihavenodoubtthathebelieves it all. I wonderifhismind
He is so abnormallycleverthat if he wentoffhishead he
would carry out hisintent withregardto some fixed idea

wouldbe almost as great amarvel as the otherto findthat
fully. Imayget some light onthemystery.
29 September, morning. Last night, at a little be-
especiallyaddressing himself to Arthur, as if allour wills
would all come with him too, "for," he said, "there is a
gravedutyto bedonethere. You weredoubtless surprised
at my letter?" This query was directly addressed to Lord
Godalming.
"I was. It rather upset me for abit. There has been so
muchtroublearound myhouseoflatethatIcoulddowith-
thing."
"Me too," said Quincey Morris laconically.
"Oh," said the Professor, "then you are nearer the be-
Itwas evidentthathe recognisedmyreturntomy old
doubting frame of mind without saying a word. Then,
turningtotheothertwo,hesaidwithintensegravity:-
how much. Therefore may I ask that you promiseme in
me for a time-I must not disguise from myself the pos-
sibility that such may be-you shallnot blame yourselves
for the Professor. I don't quite seehis drift, but I swear
done myself the honour of counting you one trusting

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 225
Then Arthur spoke out:-
assure me that what you intend does not violate either of
these two, then Igive myconsent at once; though for the
thatitdoesnot violateyour reservations."
the pourparlers are over, may I ask what it is we are to
do?" 1
thechurchyard at Kingstead."
"Where poor Lucy is buried?" The Professor bowed.
"To enter the tomb!" Arthur stoodup.
"Professor, areyou inearnest; or is it some monstrous
joke? Pardon me, I see that you are in earnest." He sat
as one who is on his dignity. There was silence until he
asked again:-
"To open the coffin."
willing to be patient in allthings that are reasonable; but
in this this desecration of the grave of one who "
He fairly choked with indignation. The Professor looked
pityinglyathim.
said, "God knows I would. But this night our feet must
lovemustwalkinpaths of flame!"

"Takecare, sir, takecare!"
"Would it not bewelltohear what I haveto say?" said
ofmypurpose. Shall I go on?"
"That's fair enough," broke inMorris.
effort:-
be no wrong to her. But if she is notdead "
Arthur jumpedto his feet.
"I did not say she was alive, my child; I did not think
nightmare, orwhat is it?"
which agebyagetheymaysolveonlyinpart. Believe me,
wearenowonthe vergeof one. ButIhavenotdone.May
IcutofftheheadofdeadMiss Lucy?"
me too far. Whathave Idonetoyouthatyou should tor-
ture me so? What did that poor, sweet girl do that you
madthatspeak suchthings, oramImadtolistentothem?
Don'tdaretothinkmoreof such adesecration; Ishallnot
doit!"
"My Lord Godalming, I, too, haveaduty todo, aduty
shalldo it! All I askyou now isthatyou come with me,
request you do not be more eager for its fulfilment even

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 22
soheavyatask as now. Believe methat ifthe timecomes
you will wipe away all this so sad hour, for I would do
thentohelpasweetyounglady,whom,too, Icametolove.
For her-I am ashamed to say so much, but I say it in
kindness-I gavewhatyougave; thebloodofmyveins; 1
gave it, I, who was not, likeyou, her lover, but only her
good even now, when she is the dead Un-Dead, she shall
haveit freely." Hesaidthiswithaverygrave, sweetpride,

CHAPTER XVI
DR. SEWARD'S DIARY-continued
It was just a quarter before twelve o'clock when we got
intothechurchyardover the low wall. The nightwas dark
with occasional gleams of moonlight between the rents of
theheavy clouds that scudded across the sky. We allkept
as he ledthe way. When we had come closeto the tomb I
lookedwellatArthur, for I fearedthatthe proximity to a
placeladenwithso sorrowfulamemory wouldupset him;
butheborehimselfwell. Itookitthatthe very mysteryof
ural hesitation amongst us for various reasons, solved the
difficultybyenteringfirsthimself.The restofus followed,
pointedto thecoffin. Arthur stepped forward hesitatingly;
"You were with me yesterday. Was the body of Miss
Lucy inthat coffin?"
"It was." The Professor turned to the rest saying:-
lid of the coffin. Arthur looked on, very pale but silent;
when the lid was removed he stepped forward. He evi-
dentlydid not know that there was a leaden coffin, or, at
quickly fell away again, so that he remained of a ghastly
The coffin was empty!
For several minutes no one spoke a word. The silence
was brokenby Quincey Morris:-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 229
Iwouldn't ask such a thing ordinarily-I wouldn't sodis-
honouryouas to imply adoubt; butthis is amystery that
*
ing?"
"I swear toyoubyallthat I hold sacred that I have not }
removed nor touched her. What happened was this: Two
purpose, believe me. I openedthat coffin, which was then
not, friend John?"
"Yes."
"That night we were just in time. One more so small
amongst the graves. Yesterday I came here before sun-
here all the night till the sun rose, but I saw nothing. It
was mostprobable that it was because I had laid over the
was no exodus, so to-night before the sundown I took
coffin empty. Butbearwith me. So far there is much that
ing the door behind him.
the terrorofthatvault. How sweet it was to seethe clouds
the life of agreat city. Each in his own way was solemn

conclusions. Quincey Morris was phlegmaticinthe wayof
ofcoolbravery, withhazardofallhehasto stake. Not be-
ing able to smoke, hecut himself agood-sized plug of to-
ployed in adefiniteway. First hetook fromhisbagamass
of what looked like thin, wafer-like biscuit, which was
carefully rolled up inawhite napkin; next he took out a
"I am closing the tomb, so that the Un-Dead may not
enter."
asked Quincey."Great Scott! Is this agame?"
"It is".
"Whatis thatwhichyouareusing?" This timetheques-
such earnest purpose as the Professor's, a purpose which
could thus use the to him most sacred of things, it was
impossible to distrust. In respectful silence we took the
.
places assigned to us close round the tomb, but hidden
especially Arthur. I had myself been apprenticed by my
withinme. Neverdidtombs look soghastly white; never

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 231,
didcypress, oryew,orjuniper soseemtheembodimentof
funereal gloom; never did tree or grass wave or rustle so
neverdid the far-away howling ofdogs send such awoe-
ful presage through the night.
then from the Professor a keen "S-s-s-s!" He pointed;
dressed in the cerements of the grave. We could not see
the face, for it was bent down over what we saw to be a
such as achildgives insleep, oradogas itliesbeforethe
figure moved forwards again. It was now near enough for
as we recognised the features of Lucy Westenra. Lucy
fell on Lucy's face wecould seethatthe lips werecrimson
We shuddered with horror. I could see by the tremu-
heldhimup, hewouldhave fallen.
When Lucy-I call the thing that was before us Lucy

bekilled, I couldhavedone it with savagedelight. As she
came wreathed with a voluptuous smile. Oh, God, how it
made me shudder to see it! With a careless motion, she
flung to theground, callous as a devil, thechildthatup to
now she had clutched strenuously to her breast, growling
over it as adoggrowls over abone. The childgave asharp
voluptuous grace, said:-
There was something diabolically sweet in her tones-
something of the tingling of glass when struck-which
full of rage, dashedpasthim asiftoenter thetomb.
When within a foot or two of the door, however, she
stopped, as ifarrestedbysome irresistible force. Then she
Helsing's iron nerves. Never did I see suchbaffled malice
by mortaleyes. Thebeautiful colour became livid, theeyes
seemed to throw out sparks of hell-fire, the brows were
wrinkledas thoughthe foldsof the flesh werethe coils of

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 233
could kill we saw it at that moment.
lence by asking Arthur:-
work?"
sacred emblem which he had placed there. We all looked
oninhorrified amazement as we saw, whenhestood back,
as our own, pass inthrough the interstice where scarce a
knife-blade could have gone. We all felt a glad sense of
relief when we saw the Professor calmly restoring the
strings of putty to the edges of the door.
morrow. There is a funeral at noon, so here we shall all
comebefore long after that. The friends of thedead will
shall remain. Thenthere is moretodo;butnotlikethis of
by to-morrow night he shall be well. We shall leave him
then to home." Coming closeto Arthur, he said:-
"My friendArthur, youhave hadasoretrial; butafter,
whenyoulookback,youwillseehowitwas necessary. You
are now in the bitter waters, my child. By this time to-
drunk of the sweet waters; so do not mourn overmuch.
TillthenIshallnotaskyouto forgiveme."

to cheer each other on the way. We had left the child in
reality of sleep.
29 September, night. Alittle before twelve o'clock we
the Professor. It was odd to noticethat by common con-
sent we had all put on black clothes. Of course, Arthur
wore black, for he was indeep mourning, but the rest of
uswore itby instinct. We got to the churchyard by half-
vation, so that when thegravediggers had completedtheir
gone,had lockedthegate, wehadtheplace alltoourselves.
alongleatherone, something like acricketing bag; it was
intention, followedtheProfessortothetomb.Heunlocked
their own ends, on other coffins, so that they might give
light sufficient to work by. When he again lifted the lid
beauty. But there was no love in my own heart, nothing
but loathing for the foul Thing which had taken Lucy's
shape without her soul. I could see even Arthur's face
sing:-
"Is this really Lucy's body, or only a demon in her
shape?"
the pointed teeth, the bloodstained, voluptuous mouth-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY
lamp, whichgaveout,whenlit inacornerof thetomb, gas
which burned at fierce heat with a blue flame; then his
Withthis stakecame aheavy hammer, such as in house-
holdsisusedinthecoal-cellar forbreaking the lumps. Tο
whohave studiedthepowers of the Un-Dead. When they
forall thatdie fromthepreying of the Un-Dead becomes
circle goes on ever widening, like as the ripples from a
stonethrowninthewater. FriendArthur, if you had met
that kiss which you know of before poor Lucy die; or
again, last night when you open your arms to her, you
wouldintime,whenyouhaddied,havebecome nosferatu,
more of those Un-Deads that so have fill us with horror.
Thecareerofthissounhappydearladyisbut justbegun.
Those children whose blood she suck are not as yet so
wicked mouth. But if shedie intruth, thenallcease; the

theirplays unknowing ever of whathas been. But of the
most blessed of all, when this now Un-Dead be made to
rest as true dead, thenthe soul of the poor lady whom we
loveshallagainbe free.Insteadof workingwickednessby
striketheblowthat setsherfree. Tothis Iam willing; but
is there none amongst us who has a better right? Will it
be no joy to think of hereafter in the silence of the night
that of all she would herself have chosen, had it been to
herto choose?'Tellmeiftherebesuchaoneamongstus?"
We all looked atArthur. He saw, too, what we all did,
theinfinitekindnesswhichsuggestedthathis shouldbe the
snow:
"Mytrue friend, from thebottomof mybrokenheart I
stake must be driven through her. It will be a fearful
ordeal-benotdeceivedinthat-butitwillbe only a short
great; from thisgrimtombyouwillemerge as though you
tread on air. But you must not falter when onceyou have
begun. Only think that we, your true friends,are round
"Go on," saidArthur hoarsely. "Tell me what I am to
do."
when we beginour prayer for the dead-I shall read him,
God's name, that soall may be well with the deadthat we

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 237
could see its dint in the white flesh. Then he struck with
allhismight.
curdling screech came from the opened red lips. The body
sharp white teeth champed together till the lips were cut,
Arthur never faltered. He looked like a figure of Thor as
deeperthe mercy-bearing stake, whilst the blood from the
sight of it gave us courage so that our voices seemed to
ring through the little vault.
toquiver. Finallyitlaystill. Theterribletask was over.
wouldhave fallenhadwe notcaughthim. Thegreatdrops
it. For a few minutes we were so taken up with him that
wedidnot looktowardsthe coffin. When wedid,however,
of us. We gazed so eagerly that Arthur rose, for he had
altogether thegloomof horror that lay upon it.
There, inthecoffin layno longerthe foulThing that we
destruction was yielded as a privilege to the one best en-
titledto it, but Lucy as we had seen her in her life, with
there were there, as we had seen them in life, the traces

we felt that the holy calm that lay like sunshine over the
bolofthecalmthatwastoreign for ever.
given?"
The reaction of the terrible strain came as he took the
"Forgiven! God bless you thatyou have givenmydear
cried for awhilesilently, whilstwestoodunmoving. When
lips if you will, as she would have you to, if for her to
a foul Thing for all eternity. No longer she is the devil's
Un-Dead. She is God's true dead, whose soul is with
Him!"
topoff the stake,leaving thepoint of it inthe body. Then
gathering up our belongings, came away. When the Pro-
fessor locked the doorhegavethe key to Arthur.
wewereglad, thoughitwas withatempered joy.
"Now, my friends, one step of ourworkis done, one the
most harrowing toourselves. But there remains agreater

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 239
pain. Shallyou not all help me? We have learned to be-
terend?"
made. Then saidthe Professor as we moved off:-
gether at seven of the clock with friend John. I shall en-
John, youcome withme home, for I havemuchtoconsult
ourgreatquest. But first I shallhavemuch to say, sothat
share we mustnotdrawback."

CHAPTER XVII
DR. SEWARD'S DIARY-continued
found a telegramwaiting for him:-
The Professor was delighted. "Ah, that wonderful
Madam Mina," he said,"pearl among women! She arrive,
Youmust meet her at the station. Telegraph her en route,
sothatshemaybeprepared.""
When the wire was despatched he had a cup of tea;
of Mrs. Harker's diary at Whitby. "Take these,” he said,
inquisition. Keep them safe, forthere is inthem much of
treasure. You will need allyour faith, even you who have
papers as he spoke,"may be the beginning of the end to
of the Un-Dead who walkthe earth. Read all, I prayyou,
we shall go through allthese together when we meet." He
off to Liverpool Street. I took my way to Paddington,

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 241
whereI arrived about fifteenminutesbeforethetraincame
in.
Thecrowdmelted away, afterthebustling fashion com-
easy, lest I might miss my guest, when a sweet-faced,
"I knew you from the description of poor dear Lucy;
spread her face.
The blush that rose to my own cheeks somehow set us
Undergroundto Fenchurch Street, after I had sent a wire
prepared at once for Mrs. Harker.
In due time we arrived. She knew, of course, that the
place was a lunatic asylum, but I could see that she was
unableto repress a shudder when we entered.
She told me that, if she might, she would come pres-
ently to my study, as shehad much to say. So here I am
finishing my entryinmyphonograph diary whilst I await
open before me. I must get her interested in something,
does not know how precious time is, or what a task we
she is!
Mina Harker's Journal.
29 September. After I had tidied myself, I went down
to Dr. Seward's study.AtthedoorIpausedamoment, for
I thought I heard him talking with some one. As, how-
ever,hehadpressedmetobequick, Iknocked atthedoor,
To my intensesurprise, therewas no one with him. He

knew at once fromthedescriptionto be a phonograph. I
"I hope I did not keep you waiting," I said; "but
there was some one withyou."
"Oh," he replied withasmile,"I was onlyenteringmy
diary."
"Your diary?" I askedhim in surprise.
something?"
look overspread his face.
ment:- 1
"You helped to attend dear Lucy at the end. Let me
hear how she died; for all that I know of her, I shall be
verygrateful. She was very, verydearto me."
inhis face:-
"Tellyou ofherdeath?Not forthewide world!"
"Why not?" I asked, for some grave, terrible feeling
out:-
but smile, at which hegrimaced."I gave myself away that
time!" he said."But do youknow that, although I have

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 243
kept the diary for months past, it never once struck me
up that the diary of a doctor who attended Lucy might
have something to add to the sum of our knowledge of
"Then, Dr. Seward, you had better let me copy it out
foryouonmytypewriter." Hegrewtoapositivelydeathly
pallorashesaid:-
"No!no! no! Foralltheworld, Iwouldn'tletyouknow
that terriblestory!"
Then itwas terrible;myintuitionwasright! For a mo-
sciously looking forsomething or some opportunity to aid
me, they lit on a great batch of typewriting on the table.
ing, followed their direction. As they saw the parcel he
"You do not know me," I said. "Whenyou have read
Ihavetyped-youwillknowmebetter. I havenot faltered
in giving every thought of my own heart in this cause;
expectyoutotrust me so far."
"You are quite right. Idid not trustyoubecause Idid
should have knownyou long ago. I know that Lucy told ,
you of me; she told me ofyoutoo. May I make the only
willnothorrifyyou;thenyouwillknowmebetter. Dinner

other sideofatrueloveepisode of which I knowone side
already.
Dr. Seward'sDiary.
29 September. I was so absorbed in that wonderful
let time run on without thinking. Mrs. Harker was not
ker's diary, whenshecame in. She looked sweetly pretty,
somehow moved me much. Of late I have had cause for
tears, God knows! but the relief ofthem was denied me;
centtears, went straightto myheart. So Isaidas gentlyas
Icould:-
"IgreatlyfearI havedistressedyou."
"Oh, no, not distressed me," she replied, "but I have
wonderful machine,but it iscruellytrue. Ittoldme, in its
crying out to Almighty God. No one must hear them
spoken ever again! See, I have triedto be useful. I have
neednowhearyourheartbeat, as Idid."
"No oneneed everknow, shall ever know," I said in a
gravely:-
"Ah, butthey must!"
"Must! But why?" I asked.
"Becauseit isapartoftheterriblestory,apart of poor
struggle which we have before us to rid theearth of this

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 245
lights to this darkmystery. Youwilllet me help, willyou
thoughyour diaryonlytookme to 7 September, how poor
morrow to help us. We need have no secrets amongst us;
once to her wishes. "You shall," I said, "do asyou like in
thematter. God forgiveme if I do wrong! There are ter-
riblethingsyettolearnof;butifyouhave so fartravelled
onthe roadto poor Lucy's death, you will notbecontent,
Iknow, to remaininthedark. Nay, theend-thevery end
-may give you a gleam of peace. Come, there isdinner.
Mina Harker's Journal.
29September. Afterdinner IcamewithDr. Seward to
his study. Hebroughtbackthephonographfrommyroom,
tookachair, withhisbacktome, sothat Imightbeas free
that followed, was done, I layback inmy chair powerless.
Fortunately I am not of a fainting disposition. When Dr.
Seward saw me he jumped up with a horrified exclama-

there came through all the multitude of horrors, the holy
ray of light that mydear, dear Lucy was at last at peace,
I do not think I could have borne it without making a
I could nothave believed.As it was, I didn't know what
to Dr. Seward:-
"Let me write this all out now. Wemust be ready for
put inchronological order, we shallhavedone much. You
too. Let us be able to tell him when they come." He ac-
to typewrite fromthe beginning ofthe seventh cylinder. I
as I had done with all the rest. It was late when I got
through, but Dr. Seward went about his work of going
his round of the patients; when he had finished he came
theworld seems full ofgoodmen even if there aremon-
put inhisdiary of the Professor's perturbation at reading
so, seeing that Dr. Seward keeps his newspapers, I bor-
zette," of which I hadmade cuttings,helped us tounder-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 247
Dr. Seward'sDiary.
30 September.-Mr. Harker arrived at nineo'clock. He
hadgothis wife's wirejustbeforestarting. He is uncom-
great nerve. That going down to the vault a second time
was a remarkable piece of daring. After reading his ac-
count of it I was prepared to meet a good specimen of
who came here to-day.
click of the typewriter. They arehard at it. Mrs. Harker
says thattheyareknitting together inchronological order
everyscrapofevidence they have. Harker has got the let-
carriers in London who took charge of them. He is now
reading his wife's typescript of mydiary. I wonder what
theymakeout of it. Here it is.
might be the Count's hiding-place! Goodness knows that
wehadenoughclues fromtheconduct ofthepatientRen-
field! Thebundleofletters relatingtothepurchase of the
house were with the typescript. Oh, if we had only had
them earlier we might have saved poor Lucy! Stop; that
lating his material. He says that by dinner-time they will
be able to show a whole connected narrative. He thinks
Count. Ihardly see this yet, butwhenIgetat the dates I
suppose I shall. What agoodthingthat Mrs. Harker put
my cylinders into type! We never could have found the
dates otherwise.
I found Renfield sitting placidly inhis room with his

him onalotofsubjects, allofwhich hetreated naturally.
Hethen, of his own accord, spoke of going home, asub-
ject he has never mentioned to my knowledge during his
sojournhere. In fact,hespokequiteconfidently ofgetting
his discharge at once. I believe that, had I not had the
outbursts, I should have been prepared to sign for him
afterabrieftimeofobservation.As itis,Iamdarkly sus-
picious. Allthose outbreaks were in someway linked with
the proximity of the Count. What then does this abso-
as to the vampire's ultimatetriumph? Stay; he is himself
door of the deserted house he always spoke of "master."
This all seems confirmation of our idea. However, after
atpresenttomakeit safeto probehimtoodeepwithques-
away. I mistrustthesequiet moods of his; so I havegiven
astrait-waistcoat ready in case of need.
29 September, in train to London.-When I received
Mr. Billington'scourteous messagethat hewould give me
of the Count's to its place in London. Later, we may be
theyhaddecidedthat Imuststaythe night. They arehos-
pitable,withtrueYorkshirehospitality:giveaguestevery-
Billington hadreadyinhis office allthepapers concerning
theconsignment of boxes. Itgave mealmosta turntosee
again one of the letters which I had seen on the Count's

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 249
withprecision. He seemedtohavebeenprepared forevery
obstacle which mightbeplacedbyaccident in the way of
whichhisinstructions were fulfilled,was simplythelogical
"Fiftycases ofcommonearth, tobeused forexperimental
their reply; ofbothofthese Igotcopies. This was allthe
information Mr. Billingtoncouldgiveme, so I wentdown
place inlocaltradition;butnoonecouldaddtothe simple
description"Fifty cases of common earth." I then saw the
station-master, whokindly putme in communication with
themen who had actually received the boxes. Their tally
shifting them was dry work. One of them added that it
as yourself, squire," to show some sort of appreciation of
thethirstthengenerated was suchthat eventhetime which
hadelapsedhadnotcompletelyallayed it. Needless to add,
this sourceof reproach.
30 September.-The station-master was good enough to
King's Cross, so that when I arrived there in the morn-
ing I was able to ask him about the arrival of the boxes.
He, too,putmeatonce incommunicationwith the proper
normal thirst had been here limited; a noble use of them

From thence I went on to Carter Paterson's central
office, where I metwiththeutmostcourtesy. They looked
at once telephoned to their King's Cross office for more
details. By good fortune, the men who did the teaming
the papers connected with the delivery of the boxes at
Carfax. Here again I found the tally agreeing exactly;
the carriers' men were able to supplement the paucity of
thewrittenwords with a fewdetails. Thesewere, Ishortly
found, connected almost solely with the dusty nature of
medium of the currency of the realm, of the allaying, at
a later period, this beneficial evil, one of the men re-
marked:-
"That 'ere'ouse, guv'nor, istherummiest I everwas in.
Blyme! but it ain't been touched sence ahundred years.
Therewasdustthatthickintheplacethatyoumighthave
thatneglectedthatyermight'ave smelledoleJerusalem in
mymate, wethortwewouldn'tnevergitoutquickenough.
Lor', I wouldn't take less nor aquid amoment to stay
there arter dark."
Having been in the house, I could well believe him;
butifheknewwhat Iknow,hewould, Ithink,haveraised
his terms.
Of one thing I am now satisfied: that all the boxes
which arrivedat Whitby fromVarnainthe Demeterwere
safelydeposited intheoldchapelat Carfax. There should
-as from Dr. Seward's diary I fear.
I shall try to see the carter who took away the boxes
from Carfax when Renfield attacked them. By following
upthiscluewe maylearn agooddeal.
putallthepapersintoorder.

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 251
MinaHarker'sJournal
30 September.-Iam sogladthat Ihardlyknow how to
contain myself. It is, I suppose, the reaction from the
haunting fear which I have had: that this terrible affair
brave a face as Icould, but Iwas sickwith apprehension.
Theefforthas, however, donehimgood.He was never so
thatwould killaweaker nature. He cameback fullof life
order for to-night. I feel myself quite wild with excite-
not even beast. To read Dr. Seward's account of poor
springs of pity in one's heart.
tomeapainfulmeeting, foritbrought back all poor dear
Lucy's hopes of only a few months ago. Of course they
Helsing, too,hasbeenquite"blowingmytrumpet," as Mr.
Morris expressed it. Poor fellows, neither of them is
aware that I know all about the proposals they made to
Lucy. Theydid notquiteknowwhattosay ordo, as they
had tokeep on neutral subjects. However, I thought the
Icoulddo would beto post them in affairs right up to
date. I knew from Dr. Seward's diary that theyhadbeen

just finished putting them in order. I gave them each a
copyto readinthelibrary. When LordGodalming got his
said:-
"Didyou write allthis, Mrs.Harker?" "
"Idon'tquitesee the drift of it; butyoupeopleare all
tothelasthourofhislife. Besides, Iknowyou loved my
hisfeelingsonthetenderoremotionalsidewithout feeling
havesuchathought. ThereIwronghim; I knowhe never
seethat his heartwasbreaking:-
she is gone, willyou notlet me be like a sister to you in
yourtrouble? I know what sorrowsyouhavehad, though
little service-for Lucy's sake?"
with grief. It seemed to me that allhe had of late been
suffering in silence found a vent at once. He grew quite

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 253
cried like a weariedchild, whilstheshookwith emotion.
We women have something of the mother in us that
makes us rise above smaller matters when the mother-
restingonme, asthough it werethatofthebabythat some
he were my own child. I never thought at the time how
with which his sorrow was surrounded, he could speak
freely. "I know now how I suffered," he said, as he dried
that, though I am not ungrateful now, my gratitude will
brother, will you not, for all our lives for dear Lucy's
sake?"
wonmineto-day. If ever the future should bring toyou a
toyou tobreakthe sunshine ofyour life; but if itshould
evercome, promisemethatyouwillletmeknow." He was
comfort him, so I said:-
"I promise."
As Icamealongthecorridor Isaw Mr. Morris looking
out of a window. He turned as he heard my footsteps.

"How is Art?" he said. Then noticing my red eyes, he
went on: "Ah, I seeyou havebeencomforting him. Poor
one to comfort him."
He bore his own trouble so bravely that my heart bled
1when he read it he would realise how much I knew; so
I said to him:-
"I wish I could comfort all who suffer from the heart.
for comfort if you need it? You willknow, later on, why
he said quite calmly:-
"Littlegirl, you will never regiet that true-heartedkind-
ness, so long as ever you live!" Then he went into the
study to his friend.
oh, but he proved himself a friend!

CHAPTER XVIII
DR. SEWARD'S DIARY
tothe carriers' men, ofwhom Dr. Hennesseyhad written
estly say that, for the first time since I have lived in it,
thisoldhouse seemed like home. When we had finished,
Mrs. Harker said:-
patient, Mr. Renfield. Do let me see him. What you have
said of him in your diary interests me so much!" She
took her with me. When Iwent into the room, Itold the
uptheplace." His methodoftidyingwaspeculiar: he sim-
couldstophim.Itwasquiteevidentthathe feared, or was
jealous of, some interference. Whenhe had got through
hisdisgusting task,he saidcheerfully: "Let the ladycome
down, but with his eyelids raised sothat he could see her
as sheentered. Foramoment Ithoughtthathemighthave
some homicidal intent; I remembered how quiet he had

attempted to make a spring at her. She came into the
qualitiesmadpeoplemostrespect. She walked over tohim,
"Good-evening, Mr. Renfield," said she. "You see, 1
know you, for Dr. Seward hastold me ofyou." He made
no immediate reply, but eyed her all over intently with a
set frown onhis face. This lookgave wayto one of won-
der, which merged indoubt; then, to my intense astonish-
ment, he said:-
Harker smiled sweetly as she replied:-
married before I ever saw Dr. Seward, or he me. I am
Mrs. Harker."
"Then what are you doing here?"
ward."
"Then don't stay."
"But why not?" I thought that this style of conversa-
itwas tome, so I joined in:-
reply was simply contemptuous, given in apause inwhich
ingthembackagain:-
"Idon'tseethatatall, Mr. Renfield," said Mrs. Harker,
at once championing me. He replied to her with as much
thing regardinghim is of interest inour littlecommunity.
friends,butevenby his patients,who,being some of them

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 257
newdevelopment. Here was my ownpet lunatic-the most
pronounced of his type that I hadever met with-talking
whichhad touched some chordinhismemory. If this new
scious influence, she musthave some raregift or power.
was seemingly quite reasonable, she ventured, looking at
topic. I was again astonished, for he addressed himself to
the question with the impartiality of the completest
tioned certain things.
no matter how low in the scale of creation, one might
indefinitely prolong life. At times I held the belief so
tor here will bear me out that on one occasion I tried to
killhim forthe purpose of strengthening my vital powers
by the assimilationwith my ownbodyof life through the
medium of his blood-relying, ofcourse, uponthe Scrip-
turalphrase, 'Forthebloodisthelife.' Though,indeed,the
vendor of a certain nostrum has vulgarised the truism to
the very point of contempt. Isn't that true, doctor?" I
nodded assent, for I was so amazed that I hardly knew
what to either think or say; it was hard to imagine that
before. Lookingatmywatch, Isawthat Ishouldgotothe
.
itwastimetoleave. She cameat once, after sayingpleas-
which, to my astonishment, he replied:-

"Good-bye, mydear. I prayGod I may never seeyour
day.
to me, saying:-
"Ah, friend John,howgoes all? Well? So! I have been
busy, for I come here to stay if need be. All affairs are
As I drovetothe house I toldhim ofwhat had passed,
through Mrs. Harker's suggestion; at which the Profes-
sor interrupted me:-
purpose, believeme, when He madethat sogood combina-
ofhelp to us; afterto-night she must not have todo with
this so terrible affair. It is not good that she run a risk
so great. We men are determined-nay, are we not
pledged?-todestroythis monster;but it is nopart for a
not so longmarried; there maybe other things to think
of some time, if not now. You tell me she has wrote all,
then she must consult with us; but to-morrow she say
concern seemed to come onhim. "Oh that we had known

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 259
it before!" he said,"for then we might have reached him
intime tosavepoor Lucy. However, 'the milk that is spilt
cries not out afterwards, as you say. We shall not think
ofthat, but go on our way to the end." Then he fell into
asilence that lasted till we entered my own gateway. Be-
fore we went to prepare for dinner he said to Mrs.
Harker:-
"I am told, Madam Mina, by my friend John that you
thathave been, up to this moment."
"Not up to this moment, Professor," she said impul-
sively, "but up to this morning."
"Butwhy not up to now? We have seen hitherto how
good lightallthelittlethings havemade. We have told our
herpockets, she said:-
must go in. It is myrecord of to-day. I too have seen the
need of putting down at present everything, however
trivial; but there is little inthis except what is personal.
"It need notgoinifyoudonotwishit;but Ipraythat
which isfixedfornineo'clock. Therestofushavealready
read everything; so when we meet in the study we shall
Mina Harker's Journal.
30 September. When we met in Dr. Seward's study
twohours after dinner, whichhadbeenatsix o'clock, we

unconsciously formed a sort of board or committee. Pro-
Dr. Seward motioned him as he came into the room. He
the centre. The Professor said:-
"Imay, I suppose,takeitthat weareallacquaintedwith
the facts that are in these papers." We all expressed as-
"Thenitwere, I think goodthat Itellyou something of
thekindof enemywithwhich we havetodeal. I shallthen
ing.
"There are such beings as vampires; some of us have
evidencethat theyexist. Evenhadwenottheproof of our
at the first I was sceptic. Were it not that through long
nothavebelieveuntil suchtimeasthatfactthunderonmy
ear. 'See! see! I prove; I prove.' Alas! Had I know atthe
firstwhat now Iknow-nay, hadIeverguess at him-one
nosferatu do not die like the bee when he sting once. He
toworkevil. This vampirewhich is amongst us is of him-
self so strong in person as twenty men; he is of cunning

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 261
weto begin our strike to destroy him? How shall we find
friends, this is much; it is a terrible task that we under-
shudder. For if we fail in this our fight he must surely
not. But to fail here, is not mere life ordeath. It is that
we become as him; that we henceforward become foul
things of the night like him without heart or conscience,
To us for everare the gates of heaven shut; for who shall
openthemtous again? Wego on foralltime abhorred by
behind. You other are young. Some have seen sorrow;
but there are fair days yet in store. What say you?"
but it was life to me to feel its touch-so strong, so self-
music.
speaking betweenus.
"Count me in, Professor," said Mr. Quincey Morris,
laconically as usual.
"I am with you," said Lord Godalming, "for Lucy's
sake, if for no other reason."

after laying his goldencrucifix on the table, held out his
our solemn compact was made. I felt my heart icy cold,
butitdid not even occurto me to drawback. We resumed
cheerfulness which showed thatthe serious work had be-
"Well, you know what we have to contend against;
but we, too, are not without strength. We have on our
side power of combination-apower denied to the vam-
pire kind; we have sources of science; we are free to
ours equally. In fact, so far as our powers extend, they
not a selfish one. These things are much.
"Now let us see how far the general powers arrayed
fine, let us consider the limitations of the vampire ingen-
These do notatthe firstappearmuch, whenthe matter is
death. Yetmust webesatisfied; inthefirstplacebecause
stition-are everything. Does not the belief in vampires
rest for others though not, alas! for us-on them? A
year ago which ofus wouldhave received such apossi-
bility, inthe midst of our scientific, sceptical, matter-of-
fact nineteenth century? Weevenscoutedabelief that we
saw justifiedunder our very eyes. Take it, then, that the
for the moment on the same base. For, let me tell you,
he is known everywhere that men have been. In old

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 263
fear him at this day. He have followthe wake of the ber-
Saxon, the Magyar. So far, then, we have allwe may act
justifiedbywhatwehave seeninourownsounhappyex-
ten on theblood of the living. Even more, we have seen
not flourish without this diet; he eat not as others. Even
seehim to eat, never! He throws no shadow; he make in
to wolf, as we gather from the ship arrival in Whitby,
come in mist which he create that noble ship's captain
himself. He come on moonlight rays as elemental dust-
cula. He become so small-we ourselves saw Miss Lucy,
ere she was at peace, slip through a hairbreadth space at
it be bound or even fused up with fire-solder you call
which is one half shut from the light. Ah, but hear me
hewho is not of nature has yet to obey some of nature's

the first, unless there be some one of the household who
please. His power ceases, as does that of all evil things,
have limited freedom. Ifhebe not attheplace whither he
record of ours wehaveproof by inference. Thus, where-
earth-home, his coffin-home, his hell-home, the place un-
hallowed, as we saw whenhe went to thegraveofthesui-
ningwater at the slackor the flood of the tide. Then there
arethingswhich soafflict himthathehas nopower, as the
symbol, my crucifix, thatwas amongst us even nowwhen
we resolve, tothemhe is nothing, but intheir presence he
others, too, which I shall tellyou of, lest in our seeking
keep him that he move not from it; a sacred bullet fired
the stake through him, weknow already of its peace; or
thecut-offheadthatgivethrest. We have seenit withour
eyes.
obey what we know. But he is clever. I have asked my
friend Arminius, of Buda-Pesth University, to make his
what he has been. He must, indeed, have been that Voi-
most cunning, as well as the bravest of the sons of the

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 265
whowereheld by their coevals tohavehad dealings with
the Evil One. They learned his secrets in the Scholo-
where the devil claims the tenth scholar as his due. In the
too well. There have been from the loins of this very one
the least of its terrors that this evil thing is rooted deep
rest."
Whilst theyweretalkingMr. Morris waslooking stead-
Professor went on:-
tle to Whitbycame fiftyboxes of earth, all of which were
delivered at Carfax; we also know that at least some of
these boxes have been removed. It seems to me, that our
first step should be to ascertain whether all the rest re-
main in the house beyond that wall where we look to-
latter, we must trace ”
Here we were interrupted inavery startling way. Out-
side the house came the sound of a pistol-shot; the glass
ofthewindow wasshattered witha bullet, which, ricochet-
ing from the topof the embrasure, struckthe far wall of
the room. I am afraid I am at heart a coward, for I
shrieked out. Themenalljumpedtotheirfeet; Lord God-
hedid so we heard Mr. Morris's voice without:-

pardon, Mrs. Harker, most sincerely; I fear Imust have
frightenedyouterribly. Butthe factisthat whilst the Pro-
window-sill. I have got such a horror of the damned
Iwent out to have a shot, as I havebeendoing of late of
evenings, whenever I have seen one..You used to laugh
atme for itthen, Art."
ready, we must either capture or kill this monster in his
lair; or wemust, soto speak, sterilise the earth, sothat no
weak.
until all be well. You are too precious to us to have such
risk. When we partto-night, you no more must question.
ger, such as we are."
perhaps, lessentheirsafety-strengthbeingthebest safety
though it was abitter pill for me to swallow, Icould say
nothing, saveto accept theirchivalrous care of me.
Mr. Morris resumed the discussion:-
"As there is no time to lose, I vote we have alook at
to their work, they might even leave me out of their

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 267
counsels altogether. They have now gone off to Carfax,
Dr. Seward's Diary.
1 October, 4 a. m-. Just as we were about to leave the
field to know if I would seehim at once, as hehad some-
messenger to say that I would attend to his wishes in the
added:-
"He seems very importunate, sir. Ihave never seenhim
soeager. I don'tknowbut what, ifyoudon'tseehim soon,
not have said this without some cause, so I said: "All
"Take me with you, friend John," said the Professor.
"May I come also?" asked Lord Goldaming.
"Me too?" said Quincey Morris. "May I come?" said
together.
Wefoundhiminastateofconsiderable excitement,but
sendhimhome. Thishebackedupwitharguments regard-

haps, not mind sitting injudgment on my case. By the
way, you have not introduced me." I was somuch aston-
of the habit of equality, that I at once madetheintroduc-
with each ofthem,saying inturn:-
"Lord Godalming, Ihadthe honour of seconding your
father at the Windham; I grieve to know, by your hold-
have heard, the inventor of aburnt rumpunch, much pa-
tronisedonDerby night. Mr. Morris,you shouldbeproud
ofyourgreatstate.ItsreceptionintotheUnionwasapre-
cedent which may have far-reaching effects hereafter,
vast engine of enlargement, when the Monroe doctrine
no apology for dropping all forms of conventionalprefix.
discoveryofthecontinuousevolutionofbrain-matter,con-
ventional forms are unfitting, since they would seem to
limithimtooneofaclass. You,gentlemen, whobynation-
ality,byheredity,orbythepossessionofnaturalgifts, are
fittedtoholdyourrespectiveplacesinthemovingworld, I
juristaswellasscientist,willdeemitamoralduty todeal
withmeas onetobeconsideredasunderexceptionalcir-
of conviction which was not without its own charm.
I thinkwewereallstaggered.Formyownpart, I was

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 269
sary formalities for his release inthe morning. I thought
itbetter to wait, however, beforemaking so grave a state-
particular patient was liable. So I contented myself with
makingageneralstatementthatheappeared to be improv-
ingveryrapidly; that I wouldhave a longer chat with him
direction of meeting his wishes. This did not at all satisfy
him, forhe saidquickly:-
"ButI fear, Dr. Seward, thatyouhardly apprehendmy
wish. I desire to go at once-here-now-this very hour
essence of the contract. I am sure it is only necessary to
put before so admirable a practitioner as Dr. Seward so
simple,yetsomomentousawish,toensure its fulfilment."
"Is itpossiblethat Ihaveerredinmysupposition?"
said slowly:
"Then I suppose I must only shift my ground of re-
quest. Let me ask for this concession-boon, privilege,
whatyou will. Iamcontenttoimplore insuch acase, not
onpersonalgrounds,but forthesakeofothers. Iamnot at
liberty to giveyou the whole of my reasons; butyou may,
I assure you, take it from me that they are good ones,
duty. Could you look, sir, into my heart, you would ap-
your friends." Again he looked at us all keenly. I had a
longer, knowing from experience that he would, like all

gazing at him with a look of utmost intensity, his bushy
eyebrows almost meeting with the fixed concentration of
his look. He said to Renfield inatone whichdidnotsur-
prise me at the time, but only when I thought of it after-
tobe freeto-night? Iwillundertakethat ifyouwillsatisfy
"Come, sir, bethinkyourself. Youclaimthe privilege of
reason inthehighest degree, sinceyou seek to impress us
with your complete reasonableness. You do this, whose
leased from medicaltreatment forthis verydefect. Ifyou
will nothelpusinour effort to choose the wisest course,
to achieve your wish." He still shook his head as he
said:-
hesitate a moment; but I am not my own master in the
theresponsibilitydoes notrest with me." I thought it was
nowtimeto endthe scene,which was becomingtoocomi-
callygrave, so Iwenttowards the door, simply saying:-
"Come, my friends, we have work to do. Good-night."
ப்
over the patient. He moved towards me so quickly that
homicidal attack. Myfears,however, weregroundless, for
of his emotionwasmilitating againsthim, by restoring us
more to our old relations, he became still more demon-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 271
reflecting inhiseyes; so I becamealittlemorefixedinmy
efforts were unavailing. I had previously seen something
he had to make some request of which at the time he had
sullen acquiescence on this occasion. My expectation was
not realised, for, whenhe found that his appeal would not
rent of entreaty, with the tears rolling down his cheeks,
emotion:-
"Let me entreat you, Dr. Seward, oh, let me implore
you, to let me out of this house at once. Send me away
go out of this. You don't know what you do by keeping
me here. I am speaking from the depths of my heart-
of my very soul. You don't know whom you wrong, or
all you hold sacred-by all you hold dear-by your love
that is lost-by your hope that lives--for the sake of the
fighting for his soul? Oh, hear me! hear me! Let me go!
let me go! let me go!"
I thought that the longer this went on the wilder he
"Come," I said sternly,"no more of this; we have had
more discreetly."

over, sat down on the side of the bed. The collapse had
come, as on formeroccasion, justas Ihad expected.
When I was leavingthe room, last of ourparty, he said
to me in a quiet, well-bred voice:-
"You will, I trust, Dr. Seward, do me the justice to
bearinmind, lateron,that IdidwhatIcouldtoconvince
you to-night."
"

CHAPTER XIX
1 October, 5 a. m.-Iwent withtheparty to the search
adread to me that she was inthis fearful business at all;
puttogether in such awaythat everypointtells, she may
forthleavethe rest to us. We were, I think, allalittle up-
setby the scene with Mr. Renfield. When we came away
fromhis roomweweresilenttillwegotbacktothe study.
Then Mr. Morris said toDr. Seward:-
added:-
todecide Iwouldbeforethatlasthysterical outburst have
would say.All isbest as they are." Dr. Seward seemed to
273 1

thentriedtotear mythroat outwith his teeth. Besides, he
out tohelphim in somediabolical way. That horrid thing
so I suppose he isn't above trying to use a respectable
lunatic. Hecertainlydid seem earnest,though. I only hope
we havedone what is best. Thesethings, in conjunction
onhisshoulder,saidinhisgrave, kindly way:-
"Friend John, have no fear. We are trying to do our
we deem best. What else havewe to hope for, except the
pityofthegoodGod?" LordGodalminghad slippedaway
forafewminutes,butnowhe returned. Heheldupalittle
silver whistle, as he remarked:-
to the house, taking care to keep in the shadows of the
trees onthelawnwhenthemoonlight shoneout. Whenwe
outalotofthings, whichhe laidonthe step, sorting them
into four little groups, evidently one for each. Then he
spoke:-
spiritual. Remember that he has the strength of twenty
hurtbyhim. Wemust,therefore,guardourselves fromhis
touch. Keep this nearyour heart"-as he spoke he lifted
to him-"put these flowers round your neck"-here he

last, this, which we must not desecrate needless." This
equipped. "Now," he said, "friend John, where are the
notbreakhousebythewindow, as beforeat Miss Lucy's."
back. We pressed on the door, the rusty hinges creaked,
veyedtome inDr. Seward's diaryoftheopening ofMiss
into the opendoor.
he passed over the threshold. We closed the door behind
us, lest whenweshouldhave lit our lamps weshouldpos-
sibly attract attention from the road. The Professor care-
fully tried the lock, lest we might not be able to open it
from within should we be in a hurry making our exit.
The light from the tiny lamps fell in all sorts of odd
forms, astherayscrossedeachother, orthe opacityofour
bodies threw great shadows. I could not for my life get
away from the feeling that there was some one else
amongst us. I suppose it was the recollection, so power-
fully brought home to me by the grim surroundings, of
ing was common to us all, for I noticed that the others
new shadow, just as I felt myself doing.
The whole place was thick with dust. The floor was
seemingly inches deep, except where there were recent
footsteps, in whichonholdingdownmy lamp I could see
marks of hobnails where the dust was cracked. The walls

masses of spider's webs, whereon the dust hadgathered
till they looked like old tattered rags as the weight had
tornthem partlydown. Onatable inthehallwas agreat
bunch of keys, with atime-yellowed label on each. They
hadbeenused severaltimes, for onthetable were several
said:-
though on my formervisit I hadnotbeenable to get ad-
turnings found myself opposite a low, arched oaken door,
fessor as he turnedhis lamponasmallmap of the house,
copied fromthefileof myoriginal correspondence regard-
ing the purchase. With a little trouble we found the key
faint, malodorous air seemed to exhale through the gaps,
tered. None of the others had met the Count at all at
the fastingstageofhisexistenceinhis rooms or, whenhe
was gloatedwith freshblood, inaruinedbuilding open to
throughthe foulerair.Butastotheodouritself, howshall
Idescribeit? Itwas not alonethat itwascomposed of all
blood, but it seemed as though corruption had become it-
self corrupt. Faugh! it sickens me to think of it. Every
breathexhaledbythatmonsterseemedtohaveclungtothe
involved gave us a strength which rose above merely

physical considerations. After the involuntary shrinking
about our workas thoughthatloathsomeplacewere agar-
denof roses.
therewas no mistaking them.
There were onlytwenty-nine left outofthe fifty! Once
I got a fright, for, seeing Lord Godalming suddenly turn
Somewhere, looking out fromthe shadow, I seemedto see
the high lights of the Count's evil face, the ridge of the
nose, the red eyes, the red lips, the awful pallor. It was
only for a moment, for, as Lord Godalming said, "I
resumed his inquiry, I turned my lamp in the direction,
couldbe nohiding-placeeven for him. I tookitthat fear
A few minutes later I saw Morris step suddenly back
from a corner, which he was examining. We all followed
his movements with our eyes, for undoubtedly some nerv-
phosphorescence, which twinkled like stars. We all in-
stinctively drewback. The wholeplace wasbecoming alive
with rats.
For a moment or two we stood appalled, all save Lord
emergency. Rushing over to the great iron-bound oaken
door, which Dr. Seward had described from the outside,

inghis little silverwhistle fromhispocket, heblew alow,
three terriers camedashing round the corner of the house.
we moved I noticed that the dust had been much dis-
turbed: the boxes which had been taken out had been
brought this way. Buteven intheminutethathadelapsed
the number of the rats had vastly increased. They seemed
to swarm over the place all at once, till the lamplight,
fireflies. Thedogsdashed on, butatthethresholdsuddenly
rushed at his natural enemies. They fled before him so
fast that before he had shaken the life out of a score, the
With their going it seemed asif someevil presencehad
vicious shakes. We all seemed to find our spirits rise.
Whether it wasthepurifying ofthedeadlyatmosphereby
the opening of the chapel door, or the relief which we
experiencedbyfinding ourselves inthe open I know not;
butmostcertainlytheshadowofdread seemedto slipfrom
our search of the house. We found nothing throughout
touched save for my own footsteps when I had made my

they frisked aboutas thoughtheyhadbeen rabbit-hunting
in a summer wood.
The morning was quickening in the east when we
in orthodox fashion, putting thekey into his pocket when
hehaddone.
"So far," he said,"our night has been eminently suc-
cessful. NoharmhascometoussuchasIfearedmightbe
plished without the bringing thereinto our most sweet
Madam Minaortroublingherwakingorsleepingthoughts
might never forget. One lesson, too, we have learned, if
itbeallowableto argue aparticulari: that thebrutebeasts
amenable to his spiritual power; for look, these rats that
wouldcometo hiscall, justas from hiscastletophe sum-
cry, though theycometo him, theyrunpell-mell fromthe
so littledogs ofmy friendArthur. Wehave other matters
-he has not used his power over the brute world for
theonlyorthelasttimeto-night. Sobeitthathe hasgone
elsewhere. Good! It has given us opportunity to cry
'check' in some ways in this chess game, which we play
tent with our first night's work. It may be ordained that
The house was silent when we got back, save for some
poor creature who was screamingaway in one of the dis-
room. The poor wretch was doubtless torturing himself,
pain.

asleep, breathing so softly that Ihadtoput my ear down
not think so at first, but I know better now. Therefore I
amgladthatitissettled. There maybethings whichwould
ofthe nether world. I daresay itwillbedifficult tobegin
tokeep silence after such confidence as ours; but I must
hashappened. Irestonthe sofa, so as not todisturb her.
I October, later.-I suppose it was natural that we
shouldhavealloverslept ourselves, forthedaywasabusy
felt its exhaustion, for though I slept till the sun was
times before she awoke. Indeed, she was so sound asleep
that fora fewseconds shedidnotrecogniseme,butlooked
beenwaked out of a bad dream. She complained a little
we may be able to trace them all. Such will, of course,
isattended to thebetter. Ishall look up Thomas Snelling
to-day.
Dr. Seward's Diary.
1 October.-It was towards noon when I was awakened
by the Professor walking into my room. He was more

last night's workhas helpedtotake some of thebrooding
weight off his mind. After going over the adventure of
the nighthe suddenly said:-
"Your patient interests me much. May it be that with
you I visit him this morning? Or if that you are too oc-
sound." I had some work to do which pressed, so I told
him that if he would go alone I wouldbe glad, asthen I
Professor left the room I cautioned him against getting
consuming live things. He said to Madam Mina, as I see
in your diary of yesterday, that he had once had such a
belief. Why doyou smile, friend John?"
learned lunatic made that very statement of how he used
toconsume life, his mouth was actually nauseous with the
"Good!" he said. "Your memory is true, friend John. I
a fascinating study. Perhaps I may gain more knowledge
teaching of the most wise. Who knows?" I went on with
seemed that thetimehadbeenveryshort indeed, butthere
askedpolitelyas he stoodat thedoor.
"It is needless; I have seenhim!"
"Well?"
"I fear that he does not appraise me at much. Our
'interview was short. When I entered his room he was
sitting on a stool in the centre, with his elbows on his

measure of respect as I could assume. He made no reply
notreassuring: 'I knowyou well enough;youarethe old
your idioticbraintheoriessomewhere else. Damnallthick-
headed Dutchmen!' Not aword more would he say, but
sat in his implacable sullenness as indifferent to me as
though I had notbeen in the room at all. Thus departed
with a few happy words with that sweet soul Madam
Mina. Friend John, it does rejoice me unspeakable that
she is no more tobe pained, no more to be worried with
our terrible things. Though we shall much miss her help,
it isbetter so."
"Mrs. Harker is better out of it. Things are quite bad
itwouldintimeinfalliblyhave wrecked her."
clues as to the earth-boxes. I shall finish my round of
Mina Harker's Journal.
late too, he was the earlier. He spoke to me before he
went out, never more sweetly or tenderly, but he never
mentionedawordofwhathadhappenedinthevisittothe

that it was best that I should not be drawn further into
men.
my journal as usual. Then if he has feared of my trust
Ishall show itto him, witheverythoughtof myheartput
low-spirited to-day. I suppose it is the reaction from the
terrible excitement.
Last night I wenttobedwhenthemenhadgone, simply
pressing on relentlessly to some destined end. Everything
that one does seems, no matter how right it may be, to
bring on the verything which ismosttobe deplored. If I
hadn't gone to Whitby, perhaps poordear Lucywouldbe
with us now. She hadn't taken to visiting the churchyard
couldn'thave destroyed her as he did. Oh, whydid I ever
go to Whitby? There now, crying again! I wonder what
for if he knew that I had been crying twice inone morn-
has never caused to shed a tear the dear fellow would
feel weepy, he shall never see it. I suppose it is oneofthe
lessons that wepoorwomenhaveto learn.

ofqueer sounds, likepraying onaverytumultuous scale,
fromMr. Renfield'sroom,whichissomewhereunderthis.
thrown by the moonlight seeming full of a silent mystery
oftheirown. Notathing seemedtobestirring, but all to
white mist, that crept with almost imperceptible slowness
across the grass towards the house, seemed to have a sen-
ofmy thoughts musthavedone me good, for when I got
backto bed I foundalethargy creeping over me. I lay a
nowcloseuptothehouse,sothatIcouldsee it lying thick
against the wall, as though it were stealing upto the win-
Icouldnotdistinguishawordhe said, Icouldinsomeway
recogniseinhistonessomepassionateentreatyonhispart.
puttingmy fingers inmyears. Iwas notthenabit sleepy,
at least so I thought; but I must have fallen asleep, for,
ing thoughts become merged in, or continued in, dreams.
weighted, so that nothing could proceed at the usualpace.
that all was dim around. The gaslight which Ihad left lit

spark through the fog, whichhad evidently grown thicker
had shut the window before I had come to bed. I would
havegotoutto make certainonthepoint,but some leaden
still see through my eyelids. (It is wonderful what tricks
nowhow itcame in, for I could seeitlike smoke or with
thewhiteenergyof boiling water-pouring in, not through
the window, but through thejoinings of the door. It got
trated intoasortofpillarofcloudintheroom, throughthe
topofwhich Icould seethe light of the gas shining like a
through itallcame the scripturalwords"a pillar of cloud
guiding, for the fire was in the red eye, which at the
two redeyes, such asLucy told meofinhermomentary
struck the windows of St. Mary's Church. Suddenly the
seenthose awful womengrowing intoreality through the
have fainted, for allbecameblackdarkness. Thelast con-
scious effort which imagination made was to show me a
livid white facebending over me out of the mist. I must
be careful of such dreams, for they would unseat one's
reason if there were too much of them. I would get Dr.
mewhich wouldmake me sleep, onlythat I fear to alarm
them. Such a dream at the present time would become
woven intotheir fears forme. To-night I shall strivehard
to sleep naturally. If I do not, I shall to-morrow night

2 October, 10 p. m. Last night I slept, but did not
dream. Imusthavesleptsoundly, for Iwas notwaked by
yesterday trying to read, or lying down dozing. In the
afternoon Mr. Renfield asked if he might see me. Poor
much; I am crying when I think of him. This is a new
effort did me good, for I forgot how tired I was. After
each other of what had occurred to each during the day;
have been; so before they went I asked Dr. Seward to
giveme a littleopiate of somekind, as Ihadnot sleptwell
the night before. He very kindly made me up a sleeping
draught, which he gave to me, telling methat it woulddo
me no harm, as it was very mild. I have taken it,
havenot done wrong, for as sleepbegins to flirt with me,
Here comes sleep.Good-night.

CHAPTER XX
1 October, evening. I found Thomas Snelling in his
houseat BethnalGreen, butunhappilyhewas not inacon-
which my expected coming had openedto him hadproved
bauch. I learned, however, from his wife, who seemed a
who of the two mates was the responsible person. So off
cer. He is a decent, intelligent fellow, distinctly a good,
from a wonderful dog's-eared notebook, which he pro-
duced from some mysterious receptacle about the seat of
half-obliteratedpencil,hegave methedestinations of the
boxes. There were, he said, six inthe cartload which he
scatter these ghastly refuges of his over London, these
places werechosenas the first ofdelivery, so that laterhe
to confine himself to two sides of London. He was now
fixed on the far east of the northernshore, onthe east of

otherboxes had beentaken from Carfax. 1
He replied:-
I'm thinkin' that maybe Sam Bloxam could tellye sum-
mut." I asked ifhe could tell me whereto find him. Itold
him that ifhe couldgetme theaddress it would be worth
said:-
"Look 'ere, guv'nor, there ain'tnosense inme a-keepin'
ain't like tobe inawaytotellyemuchto-night. Sam is a
night. Butye'd better be uparter 'im soon inthemornin',
ormaybeye won'tketch 'im; for Samgets offmain early,
nevermindtheboozethenightafore."
This was all practical, so one of the children went off
faithfullypromisedtoposttheaddresswhen found, I took
littletoopale;hereyeslookasthough shehadbeencrying.
Poordear, I'venodoubtitfretshertobekeptinthedark,
ers. But it is best as it is. It is betterto bedisappointed
broken. Thedoctors were quiterighttoinsist onherbeing
kept out of thisdreadfulbusiness. Imustbe firm, for on
me this particularburdenof silence must rest. Ishall not

Indeed, itmay notbeahardtask, afterall, forshe herself
the Count or hisdoings ever since wetold her of our de-
cision.
day. By the first post I got mydirected envelope with a
dirty scrap of paper enclosed, on which was written with
Walworth. Arsk for the depite."
Idetermined nottowakeher, but that, whenI should re-
back to Exeter. I think she wouldbehappierinour own
some difficulty, Potter's Court. Mr. Smollett's spelling
misled me, as I asked for Poter's Court instead of Pot-
ter's Court. However, when I had found thecourt, I had
ain't no such a person 'ere; I never 'eard of 'im inallmy
bloomin' days. Don't believe there ain't nobody of that
spelling of the name ofthe court mightguide me. "What
areyou?" I asked.
on the right track; phonetic spelling had againmisled me.
A half-crown tip putthe deputy's knowledge at my dis-
the remains of his beer on the previous night at Corcor-

morning. He could not tell me where the place of work
was situated,buthe had avague ideathat itwassomekind
had to start for Poplar. It was twelve o'clockbefore I got
a coffee-shop, where some workmen were having their
dinner.Oneofthesesuggestedthatthere wasbeingerected
thecoinof the realm, put me on the track of Bloxam; he
was sent for on my suggesting that Iwas willing to pay
him a few questions on a private matter. He was a smart
from this house to the latter nine great boxes-"main
purpose. I askedhimif hecouldtell methe numberofthe
houseinPiccadilly, towhichhe replied:-
"Well, guv'nor, I forgits the number, but it was only a
few doors from a big white church or somethink of the
kind, not long built. Itwas adusty old 'ouse, too, though
nothin' tothedustinessofthe'ouse wetookedthebloomin'
boxes from."
"How did you get into the houses if they were both
empty?"
"Therewas theoldparty whatengagedmea-waitin' in
putthem inthe dray. Curse me, but hewas the strongest
tache, one that thinyou would think he couldn't throw a
shadder."
Howthis phrasethrilled through me!
"Why, 'e took up 'is end o' the boxes like they was

"Howdidyouget intothe houseinPiccadilly?" I asked.
'all."
"The whole nine?" Iasked.
'ow Igot 'ome." I interruptedhim:-
"Were theboxes leftinthehall?"
Imadeonemoreattemptto furthermatters:-
"Neverusednokeynornothink. Theoldgent,heopened
rememberthelasttime-but that was the beer."
"No, sir. But ye needn't have no difficulty about that.
stepsup to thedoor. I knowthem steps, 'avin' 'ad to carry
the boxes up with three loafers what come round to earn
steps,tillthelotofthemwentawaycussin'." I thought that
withthisdescription I could findthehouse, so, havingpaid
my friend forhis information, I started off for Piccadilly.
Ihad gained a new painful experience; the Count could,
was precious; for, now that he had achieved a certain
amountofdistribution,hecould,bychoosing his owntime,
complete the task unobserved. At Piccadilly Circus I dis-
shutters were up. Allthe framework was black with time,
evident that up to lately there had been a large notice-

board in front of the balcony; it had, however, been
roughly torn away, the uprights which had supported it
still remaining.Behindthe rails ofthebalcony I saw there
were some loose boards, whose raw edges looked white. I
would have givenagooddealto havebeen able to see the
notice-board intact,as itwould, perhaps, have given some
clue to the ownership of the house. I remembered my ex-
IcouldnotbutfeelthatifIcouldfindthe former owner
thehouse.
There was at present nothing to be learned from the
quarter. Themews were active,thePiccadillyhousesbeing
mostly in occupation. I asked one or two of the grooms
thing about the empty house. One of them said that he
heard it had lately beentaken, but he couldn't say from
whom. He told me, however, that up to very lately there
me something, as he thought he remembered seeing the
nameofthatfirm ontheboard. Ididnotwishto seemtoo
IwassoonattheirofficeinSackville Street.
oncetold me thatthe Piccadillyhouse-which throughout
sidered mybusiness as concluded. When I asked whohad
paused a few seconds before replying:-
"Itis sold, sir."
"Pardonme," I said, with equal politeness,"but I have
aspecial reason forwishingtoknowwhopurchased it."

more. "It is sold, sir," was againhis laconic reply.
"Surely," I said,"you do not mind letting me know so
much."
there was no use arguing with him. I thought I had best
meethimonhisownground, so I said:-
"Your clients, sir, are happy in having so resolute a
not prompted by curiosity; I act onthe part of Lord Go-
dalming, who wishes to know something of the property
which was, he understood, lately for sale." These words
putadifferentcomplexion on affairs. He said:-
especiallywould I like to oblige his lordship. We once car-
ried out asmallmatter of renting somechambers for him
when he was the Honourable Arthur Holmwood. If you
will let me have his lordship's address I will consult the
withhis lordshipbyto-night's post. Itwillbe apleasure if
quired informationtohis lordship."
camedowntoPurfleetbythe nexttrain.
I found allthe others athome. Minawas looking tired
cheerful, itwrungmyhearttothink that Ihadhadtokeep
God, this will be the last night of her looking on at our
confidence. Ittookall mycouragetohold tothe wise reso-
lution of keeping her out of our grim task. She seems
somehow more reconciled; or else the very subject seems

allusionismadeshe actuallyshudders. Iamgladwemade
our resolution intime, as with such a feeling as this, our
growingknowledge would be torturetoher.
Icouldnottell the others of the day's discovery till we
were alone; soafter dinner-followed by a little music to
she would detain me; butthere was much to betalked of
has made no difference between us.
When I camedown again I found the others all gath-
ered roundthe fireinthestudy. InthetrainIhad written
Doubtless we areonthetrackof themissing boxes. If we
findthem all inthathouse, then our work is nearthe end.
Butif therebesomemissing, we must search untilwe find
onceMr. Morrisspoke:-
"Say! how arewegoing to get into that house?"
quickly.
"But, Art, this isdifferent. We broke house at Carfax,
amighty differentthing to commit burglary in Piccadilly,
either by day or night. I confess I don't see how we are
of some sort; perhaps weshall know whenyougethis let-
ter inthe morning." Lord Godalming's brows contracted,
"Quincey's head is level. Thisburglary business is get-
ting serious; we got off onceallright; but we have now a
ket".

would be at least advisable to wait till Lord Godalming
active stepbefore breakfast time. For agood while we sat
bearings; I took the opportunity of bringing this diary
bed.
regular. Her forehead ispuckered up into little wrinkles,
asthoughshethinks eveninher sleep. Sheis stilltoopale,
butdoes not look so haggard asshedid this morning. To-
morrow will, I hope, mend all this; she willbeherself at
home in Exeter. Oh, but I am sleepy!
Dr. Seward'sDiary.
1 October. I am puzzled afresh about Renfield. His
Thismorning, when Iwentto see himafterhis repulse of
asked him:-
"What aboutthe fliesthese times?" He smiled onme in
quite a superior sort of way-such a smile as would have
"The fly, mydearsir,hasone striking feature; its wings
are typical of the aërial powers of the psychic faculties.
terfly!"
cally, so I said quickly:-
"Oh, it is a soulyou are after now, is it?" His madness

as, shaking his head with adecision which I had but sel-
domseen inhim, hesaid:-
Herehebrightenedup;"Iampretty indifferent about itat
newpatient, doctor, ifyou wish to study zoöphagy!"
Thispuzzledmealittle, so Idrewhim on:-
"Ohno! Farbeitfrom metoarrogateto myselftheat-
tributesoftheDeity. Iam notevenconcerned in His espe-
cially spiritualdoings. If Imaystatemy intellectualposi-
tion I am, so far as concerns things purely terrestrial,
somewhat in the position which Enoch occupied spiritu-
ally!" This was aposer to me. I could not at the moment
recallEnoch's appositeness; so Ihadto ask asimple ques-
tion, though I feltthatby sodoing Iwas lowering myself
intheeyes of the lunatic:-
"Because he walked with God." I could not see the
whathehaddenied:-
sternly, on purpose to disconcert him. The effort suc-
fawneduponmeashereplied:-
ner of use to me. I couldn't eat them or " He sud-
doctor, as to life, whatis itafter all? Whenyou've got all
all. Ihave friends-good friends-likeyou, Dr. Seward";
thiswassaidwithaleerof inexpressiblecunning. "I know

lastrefugeof suchashe-adoggedsilence.After a short
timeI saw that for the present it was useless to speak to
Later in thedayhe sent for me. Ordinarily I would not
havecomewithoutspecialreason,butjustatpresent Iam
poringoverthe recordpreparedbythe Harkers; he seems
to think that by accurate knowledge of all details he will
light upon some clue. Hedoes notwishto be disturbed in
the work, without cause. I would have taken him with me
to see the patient, only I thought that after his last re-
reason: Renfield might not speak so freely before a third
I foundhim sitting outinthe middleofthe floor on his
stool, a pose which is generally indicative of some mental
energy on his part. When I came in, he said at once, as
thoughthequestionhadbeenwaitingonhis lips:-
"What about souls?" It was evident then that my sur-
mise had been correct. Unconscious cerebration was doing
its work, even with the lunatic. I determined to have the
matter out. "What aboutthemyourself?" I asked. He did
termined to use it to "be cruel only to be kind." So I
said:-
"Ohyes! but that isall right; you needn't worry about
that!"
"But," I asked, "how arewetoget the life withoutget-
ting the soul also?" This seemed to puzzle him, so I fol-
loweditup:-

putupwiththeir souls!" Something seemed to affect his
eyes, screwing them up tightly just as a small boy does
when his face is being soaped. There was something pa-
thetic in it that touched me; it also gave me a lesson, for
it seemed that before me was a child-only achild, though
white. Itwas evidentthat hewas undergoing some process
had interpreted things seemingly foreign to himself, I
go with him. The first step was to restoreconfidence, so I
asked him, speaking prettyloud sothat he would hear me
throughhis closed ears:-
"Would you like some sugar to get your flies round
head. With alaughhe replied:-
"Not much! flies are poor things, after all!" After a
round me, allthe same."
"Or spiders?" I wenton.
"Blow spiders! What's the use of spiders? There isn't
thoughremindedof a forbiddentopic.
"So, so!" I thought to myself,"this is the second time
hehas suddenly stopped at theword 'drink' ; what does it
lapse, forhehurriedon,asthoughtodistract myattention
fromit:-
feed of the larder' they might be called. I'm past allthat
cules with a pair of chopsticks, as to try to interest me
about the lessercarnivora, whenIknow of whatisbefore
me."

your teeth meet in? How wouldyou like to breakfast on
"What ridiculous nonsense you are talking!" He was
getting too wide awake, so I thought I would press him
soul is like!"
The effect I desired was obtained, for he at once fell
said. Forafewmomentshesatdespondently.Suddenlyhe
souls!" he shouted."Whydoyouplague me about souls?
already, without thinking of souls!" He looked so hostile
"Forgiveme, Doctor; I forgotmyself.Youdo notneed
pardon me. Pray do not put me in a strait-waistcoat. I
them go; when the door was closed he said, with consid-
"Dr. Seward, you have been very considerate towards
me. Believe me that I am very, very grateful to you!" I
away. There is certainly somethingto ponder over in this
inproper order. Here they are:-
Willnotmention "drinking."
Fears the thought of being burdened withthe "soul" of

dreads beinghauntedbytheir souls.
Logically all these things point one way! he has assur-
dreads the consequence theburdenof a soul. Then it is a
some new scheme of terror afoot!
ing the matter over for a while asked me to take him to
Renfield. I did so. As we came to the door we heard the
lunatic within singing gaily, as he used to do in the time
which now seems so long ago. When we entered we saw
with amazement that he had spread out his sugar as of
old; the flies, lethargicwith theautumn, werebeginning to
buzz intothe room. We tried to makehim talkofthe sub-
jectofourprevious conversation,buthewouldnotattend.
Hewent on with his singing, just as though we had not
wewentin.
His is a curious case indeed; we must watch him to-
night.
"I October.
"My Lord,
"Weareatalltimesonlytoohappyto meetyourwishes.
We beg, with regard to the desire of your Lordship, ex-
pressedby Mr. Harker onyour behalf, to supply the fol-
No. 347, Piccadilly. The original vendors are the execu-
tors of the late Mr. Archibald Winter-Suffield. The pur-
thepurchasehimself paying the purchase money in notes
'over the counter,' if your Lordship will pardonus using

whatever of him.
"Weare, myLord,
Dr. Seward'sDiary.
callme. After dinner, when we hadallgathered round the
fire in the study-Mrs. Harker having gone to bed-we
Before going to bed I went roundtothepatient's room
ration.
prayers somewhat loudly. I asked him if that was all; he
replied that it was all he heard. There was something
notbetrustedunless theyarewatched.
Quinceyare looking after horses.Godalming thinks that it
will be well to have horses always in readiness, for when
wegettheinformationwhich we seekthere willbe no time
to lose. We must sterilise allthe imported earth between
to the British Museum looking up some authorities on

tous later.
Later. We have met again. We seem at last to be on
to do with this. His moods have so followed the doings of
the Count, that the coming destruction of the monster
maybecarriedtohim insomesubtle way. Ifwecouldonly
get some hint as to what passed in his mind, between the
offly-catching, it might afford us a valuable clue. He is
nowseemingquiet foraspell. Ishe? That wild
yellseemedtocome fromhis room.
that Renfield had somehow met with some accident. He
lying on his face on the floor, all covered with blood. I
mustgo at once.
...

CHAPTER XXI
DR. SEWARD'S DIARY
3 October. Let me put down with exactness all that
inallcalmness I must proceed.
When I came to Renfield's room I found him lying on
theflooronhis leftside inaglittering poolofblood. When
I went to move him, it became at once apparent that he
had received some terrible injuries; there seemed none of
thatunity of purpose betweenthe parts of the body which
could see that it was horribly bruised, as though it had
beenbeatenagainst the floor indeed it was from the face
who was kneeling besidethebodysaidto me as we turned
him over:-
"I think, sir, his backis broken. See,both his right arm
brows were gathered in as he said:-
face like that by beating his own headonthe floor. I saw
mighthave broke his neckby falling out of bed, if he got
how the two things occurred. If his back was broke, he
the falloutof bed, there would be marks of it." I said to
him:-

Renfield ontheground,helookedkeenlyathimamoment,
"Ah, a sad accident! He will need very careful watch-
I shall first dress myself. If you will remain I shall in a
fewminutes joinyou."
Helsing returned withextraordinarycelerity, bearing with
hadhis mindmade up; for,almostbefore helookedatthe
patient, hewhisperedto me:-
when he becomes conscious, after the operation." So I
said:-
"I think that willdo now, Simmons, We have done all
tion of the patient. The wounds of the face were super-
ficial;therealinjurywasadepressed fractureofthe skull,
extending right upthroughthe motorarea. The Professor
shows the terrible nature of his injury. The whole motor
area seems affected. The suffusion of the brain will in-
crease quickly, so we must trephine at once or it may be
too late." As hewas speaking there was a soft tapping at
pers: the former spoke:-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 305
I'vebeen thinkingthatto-morrow night willnot see things
saidsoftly:-
"My God! what has happened to him? Poor, poor
would recover consciousness after the operation for a
the edge of the bed, with Godalming beside him; we all
watchedinpatience.
to fix the best spot for trephining, so that we may most
dentthatthehæmorrhage is increasing."
Theminutesduringwhichwewaitedpassedwith fear-
or apprehension as to what was to come. I dreaded the
words that Renfield might speak. I was positively afraid
to think; but the conviction of what was coming was on
me, as I have read of men who have heard the death-
ples soundedlikeblows from ahammer. The silence finally
thattheywere enduring equaltorture. There was a nerv-
ous suspense over us all, as though overhead some dread
bellwouldpealoutpowerfullywhenweshould leastexpect
it.

At last there came a time when it was evident that the
mine. His face was sternly set as he spoke:-
lives; I have been thinking so, as I stoodhere. It may be
there is a soul at stake! We shall operate just above the
ear".
moments the breathing continued to be stertorous. Then
therecame abreathsoprolongedthatitseemed as though
it would tear open his chest. Suddenly his eyes opened,
ued for a few moments; then it softened into aglad sur-
"I'll be quiet, Doctor. Tell them to take off the strait-
turnhis head;but evenwiththe efforthis eyes seemed to
sing said in aquietgrave tone:-
"Tell us your dream, Mr. Renfield." As he heard the
said:-
however, that hispoorinjuredbrainhadbeen working in
theinterval, for,whenhewasquiteconscious, he lookedat
"I must notdeceive myself; itwas no dream, but all a
grimreality." Thenhis eyesrovedroundthe room; as they

• DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 307
caughtsightofthetwo figuressittingpatientlyontheedge
ofthebedhewenton:-
"If I were not surealready, I would know from them."
voluntarily, as though hewerebringing allhis faculties to
"Quick,Doctor,quick.Iamdying! I feelthatIhavebut
that I must say before I die; or before my poor crushed
leftme, when I imploredyoutoletmegoaway. Icouldn't
speak then, for I felt my tongue was tied; but I was as
agony of despair for a long time after you left me; it
seemedhours. Thentherecameasuddenpeace to me. My
was. I heard the dogs bark behind our house, but not
ithard. He did not, however, betray himself; he nodded
ceeded:-
"He came up tothe window inthe mist, as I had seen
laughing withhis redmouth;thesharpwhite teethglinted
inthemoonlightwhenheturnedtolookbackoverthebelt
of trees, to where the dogs were barking. I wouldn't ask
things-not in wordsbut bydoing them." He was inter-
ruptedby a word from the Professor:-
"How?"
"Bymakingthemhappen;justasheusedtosendinthe
flies when the sun was shining. Great big fat ones with
singnoddedtohimashewhisperedtomeunconsciously:-

"TheAcherontiaAitetropos ofthe Sphinges-what you
callthe 'Death's-head Moth'?" Thepatientwent onwith-
outstopping.
/
dogs howled, away beyond the dark trees in His house.
Heslidintothe roomthroughthe sash, thoughitwas only
His voice was weaker, so I moistened his lips with the
his memory hadgone on working in the interval for his
could not proceed at all if once he lost the thread of his
thought." He proceeded:-
"Allday I waited to hear fromhim, but hedidnot send

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 309
one. He didn't even smell the same as he went by me. I
couldn'tholdhim. I thought that, somehow, Mrs. Harker
had come into the room."
where they could hear better. They were both silent, but
noticing:-
"When Mrs. Harker came in to see me this afternoon
she wasn't the same; it was like tea after the teapot had
beenwatered." Here we allmoved, but no one saida word;
he went on:-
didn't look the same. I don't care for the pale people; I
seemedtohave runout. Ididn'tthinkof itatthe time; but
to know that He had been taking the life out of her." I
couldfeelthatthe restquivered, as I did, but we remained
otherwise still. "So when He came to-night I was ready
know hispurpose. It may not betoo late. Let us be armed
-the same as we were the other night, but lose no time;

our fear, nayourconviction, into words we shared them
same things that we had when we entered the Count's
happybusiness is over. Bewise also, my friends. It is no
common enemy that we deal with. Alas! alas! that that
dear Madam Mina should suffer!" He stopped; his voice
dominated inmyownheart.
"Should we disturb her?"
locked, Ishallbreakit in."
"May it not frightenherterribly?Itisunusual tobreak
they are all as one to me to-night. Friend John, when I
yield. We threw ourselves against it; with a crash it burst
palledme.Ifeltmyhairriselikebristlesonthebackofmy
The moonlight was sobrightthat through the thickyel-
low blind the room was light enough to see. On the bed
thenear edge ofthebed facing outwards was the white-
we saw all recognised the Count-in every way, even

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 311
the neck, forcing her facedown on his bosom. Her white
his torn-opendress. Theattitude ofthe two had a terrible
cer of milk to compel it to drink.As we burst into the
I had heard described seemed to leap into it. His eyes
flamed red withdevilish passion; the great nostrils of the
dripping mouth, champed together like those of a wild
beast. With a wrench, which threw his victim back upon
tained the Sacred Wafer. The Count suddenly stopped,
but a faint vapour. This, as we looked, trailed under the
door, which with the recoil from its bursting open, had
moved forward to Mrs. Harker, who by this time had
so ear-piercing, sodespairingthat itseems tome now that
itwill ring inmy ears till my dying day. For a few sec-
was ghastly, with a pallor which was accentuated by the
her throat trickled athin stream of blood; her eyes were
mad with terror. Then she put before her face her poor
lowdesolatewailwhichmadetheterriblescreamseem only

tome:-
for a few moments till she recovers herself; I must wake
looked I could see Quincey Morris run across the lawn
I heard Harker's quick exclamation as he woke to partial
might well be, was a look of wild amazement. He seemed
withher arms stretched out, asthoughto embracehim; in-
deredtillthebedbeneathher shook.
happened? What is wrong? Mina, dear, what is it? What
wildly together. "Good God help us! help her! oh, help
sing, you love Mina, I know. Oh, do something to save
out--

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 313
fered enough to-night, God knows, without the dread of
his harming you. You must stay with me. Stay with these
friendswho will watch over you!" Her expressionbecame
derful calmness:-
robe was stained with blood where her lips had touched,
more. Oh, that it should be that it is I who am now his
To thishe spoke out resolutely:-
"Nonsense, Mina. It is a shame to me to hear such a
while she lay there sobbing. He looked at us over her
bowedhead, witheyesthatblinkeddamplyabovehis quiv-
ering nostrils; his mouth was set as steel. After a while
said to me, speaking with a studied calmness which I felt
triedhis nervous power to the utmost:-
know the broad fact; tellmeallthathasbeen." I told him

to theopen woundinhisbreast. It interested me, even at
that moment, to see, that, whilst the face of white set
passion worked convulsively over the bowed head, the
Helsing looked at me questioningly. I understood him to
acquiescence tohimheaskedthemwhattheyhad seen or
ofour rooms. Ilookedinthestudybut,thoughhehadbeen
there,hehadgone.Hehad,however " Hestoppedsud-
Helsing saidgravely:-
ments. Our hope nowis inknowing all. Tell freely!" So
Art went on:-
for a few seconds, he made rarehayoftheplace.Allthe
flickering amongst the white ashes; the cylinders of your
is the othercopy inthe safe!" His face lit for amoment,
could see no sign of him. I looked into Renfield's room;
buttherewasnotracethereexcept !" Againhepaused.
moistening his lips with his tongue, added: "except that
the poor fellow is dead." Mrs. Harker raised her head,
looking from one to the other of us she said solemnly:-
"God's willbedone!" Icouldnotbut feelthatArt was
keepingbacksomething;but,asItookitthat it waswith a
asked:-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 315
sible where the Count would go when he left the house.
Idid not see him; but I saw a bat rise from Renfield's
shape go back to Carfax; but he evidently sought some
other lair. He willnotbebackto-night; forthesky is red-
to-morrow!"
He said the latter words through his shut teeth. For a
derly on Mrs. Harker's head:-
Mina-tell us exactly what happened. God knows that I
herprotectingly.Afterapauseinwhichshewas evidently
"I took the sleeping draught which you had so kindly
givenme, but for along time itdidnot act. I seemed to
needyour help. Well, I saw I must try to help the medi

so I resolutelysetmyselftosleep. Sureenough sleepmust
coming inhadnot waked me, forhelayby myside when
next I remember. There was in the room the same thin
whitemist that I had before noticed. But I forget now if
youknowofthis;youwillfinditinmydiarywhich I shall
show you later. I felt the same vague terror which had
soundly that it seemed as if it was he who had takenthe
thebed, as ifhe had stepped out of the mist-or rather
asif themisthadturnedintohis figure, for it hadentirely
himatoncefromthedescriptionoftheothers. Thewaxen
face; the high aquiline nose, on which the light fell in a
thinwhite line; the parted red lips, with the sharp white
to see in the sunsetonthewindows of St. Mary's Church
atWhitby. I knew, too, the redscaronhis foreheadwhere
lysed. In the pause he spoke in a sort of keen, cutting
dashhis brains out beforeyour very eyes.' I was appalled
holding me tight, bared my throat with the other, saying
as hedid so, 'First, alittle refreshmentto rewardmyex-
ertions. You may as wellbe quiet; it isnot the first time,
or the second, thatyour veins have appeased my thirst!' I
hinderhim. Isupposeitisapartof thehorriblecurse that
my God, pity me! He placed his reeking lips upon my

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 317
swoon. How longthishorriblethinglastedI knownot; but
itseemedthatalongtime musthavepassedbeforehetook
his foul, awful, sneering mouth away. I saw it drip with
others, would play your brains against mine. You would
know in full before long, what it is to cross my path.
Theyshouldhavekepttheirenergies foruseclosertohome.
Whilsttheyplayedwitsagainstme againstmewho com-
them, hundreds of years before they were born-I was
now to me, flesh of my flesh; blood of my blood; kin of
avenged inturn; for notone of them but shallminister to
your needs. But as yet you are to be punished for what
youhavedone. You have aided in thwarting me; now you
shall come to my call. When my brain says "Come!" to
his long sharp nails openedaveininhisbreast. Whenthe
pressed mymouthtothe wound,sothat I musteither suffo-
cate or swallow some of the Oh my God! my God!
what have I done? What have I done to deserve such a
ness all mydays. Godpity me! Lookdown on a poor soul

As shewas tellingherterriblestory, the eastern skybe-
awfulnarrativewent on,came agreylook whichdeepened
streakof the coming dawn shot up, the flesh stooddarkly
out against the whitening hair.
about taking action.
Ofthis I am sure: the sunrisesto-dayonnomoremis-
erablehouse inallthegreatroundof itsdailycourse.

CHAPTER XXII
3 October.As I mustdo something or gomad, I write
perhaps at the end the little things may teach us most.
trial that our faith is tested that we must keep on trust-
myGod! what end? ... To work! To work!
from seeing poorRenfield, wewentgravely into whatwas
found Renfield lying onthe floor, all in aheap. His face
were broken.
sittingdown-heconfessedtohalfdozing-whenheheard
loudly several times, "God! God! God!" after that there
found him lying on the floor, facedown, just as the doc-

at first ithad seemed to him as if there were two, but as
there was no one in the roomit couldhave been only one.
He could swear to it, if required, that the word "God"
was spoken by the patient. Dr. Seward said to us, when
we were alone, that he did not wish togo into thematter;
would never do to put forward the truth, as no one would
evidence hecould give a certificate of deathby misadven-
ture in falling from bed. In case the coroner should de-
the same result.
should beour nextstep,theveryfirstthing wedecided was
sort-no matter how painful should be kept from her.
of despair. "There must be no concealment," she said,
happen, itmustbe of newhope orof newcourage to me!"
said, suddenly but quietly:-
"But dear Madam Mina, are you not afraid; not for
yourself, but forothers fromyourself, after whathas hap-
pened?" Her face grew set inits lines, but her eyes shone
"Ah no! for mymind is made up!"
"To what?" he asked gently, whilst we were all very
still; for each in our own way we had a sort of vague
plicity, as thoughsheweresimply statinga fact:-
"Youwouldnotkillyourself?" he asked,hoarsely.
"I would; if there were no friend who loved me, who

/
For myself I couldholdit inmyaccount withGod to find
best. Nay, were it safe! But my child " for a moment
but least of all by your own. Until the other, who has
fouled your sweet life, is truedeadyou must notdie; for
if he is still with the quick Un-Dead, your death would
would make you even as he is. No, you must live! You
boon unspeakable. You must fight Death himself,
a
though he come to you in pain or in joy; by the day, or
the night; in safety or in peril! On your living soul I
chargeyouthatyoudo not die-nay, northink ofdeath-
till this great evil be past." The poor dear grew white as
silent; we could do nothing. At length she grew more
"I promiseyou, mydear friend, that if God will let me
live, I shall strive to do so; till, if itmay be in His good
time, this horror may have passed away from me." She
discuss what we weretodo. Itoldherthatshe wasto have
record as she had done before. She was pleased with the
"It is perhaps well," he said, "thatat ourmeeting after

theearth-boxes that laythere. Had wedoneso, the Count
regard to the others; but now he does notknowour inten-
tions. Nay, more, inallprobability,hedoes notknow that
when we have examined the house in Piccadilly, we may
it rests our hope. The sun that rose on our sorrow this
morningguardsusinitscourse.Untilit setsto-night, that
monster must retain whatever form he now has. He is
confinedwithinthelimitationsofhisearthly envelope. He
be, intime, sure." Here I started up for I couldnot con-
fromus, sincewhilst wetalkedaction was impossible. But
withdesperate quick, whenthetime has come. But think,
in all probablethe key of thesituationisinthathouse in
other things. He willhavepaper that he writeon; hewill
hemusthavesomewhere; whynotinthisplacesocentral,
atallhour,whenintheveryvastofthetrafficthereisnone
whenwe learnwhat itholds,thenwedo what our friend
werundown our old fox-so?is itnot?"

"Thenletuscomeatonce," I cried,"we are wasting the
precious,precioustime!" The Professordid not move, but
simplysaid:-
say?"
Iwas staggered; but I knew that if he wished to delay
he had a good reason for it. So I said, as quietly as I
could:-
whattorture I am in."
untilall the world be at movement. Then will come our
thesimplestwayisthebestof all. Now we wishtoget into
thehouse,butwehavenokey; isitnotso?" I nodded.
"Now supposethatyouwere, intruth, theowner ofthat
no conscience of the housebreaker, what would you do?"
work to pickthelock for me."
not?"
ployed."
"Then," he lookedat me as keenlyas he spoke,"allthat
ofyourpolicemenastowhetheror nothat employer hasa
good conscience or abad one. Yourpolicemust indeedbe
heart, thatthey trouble themselves in such matter. No, no,

in through the door, before the very eyes of the police.
emptyholewhere hishouse had been. This was alldone
shallnotgo soearlythatthepolicemenwho havethenlittle
wouldbedonewerewe indeed owners ofthehouse."
despair of Mina's face became relaxed a thought; there
"Whenoncewithinthathousewe may find more clues;
find the other places where there be more earth-boxes-
carriages wherethey willbemostconvenient."
"Lookhere, oldfellow,"said Morris,"itisacapitalidea
don'tyouthinkthatoneofyour snappycarriages with its
heraldicadornments inabyway of Walworth or MileEnd
would attract too much attention for our purposes? It
seems to me that we ought to takecabs when we go south
bourhood we are going to."
"Friend Quincey is right!" said the Professor. "His
peoplestowatchusifsoitmay.' وو

rejoiced to see that the exigency of affairs was helping
her to forget for a time the terrible experience of the
thin thather lips were drawn away, showing her teeth in
somewhat of prominence. I did not mention this last, lest
it should give her needless pain; but it made my blood
run cold in my veins to think of what had occurred with
poor Lucy when the Count had sucked her blood. As yet
there was no sign of the teeth growing sharper; but the
Whenwe came to thediscussion of the sequence of our
new sources of doubt. It was finally agreed that before
starting for Piccadilly we shoulddestroy the Count's lair
should thus be still ahead of him in our work of destruc-
hisweakest, might give us some new clue.
As to the disposal of forces, it was suggested by the
Professor that, after our visit to Carfax, we should all
them. It was possible, if not likely, the Professor urged,
thatthe Count might appear in Piccadillyduring the day,
tect Mina, I thought that my mind was made up on the
subject; but Mina would not listen to my objection. She
said that theremightbe some law matter in which I could
beuseful; that amongst the Count's papers might be some
muster was required to cope with the Count's extraor-
dinary power. I had to give in, for Mina's resolution was
fixed; she said that it was the lasthope for her that we
should all work together. "As for me," she said, "I have

whatever may happen must have in it some element of
startedup cryingout: "TheninGod's nameletus comeat
once, for we are losing time. The Count may come to
"Butwhy?" I asked.
"Do you forget," he said, with actually a smile, “that
ever forget that terrible scene! Mina struggled hard to
her frightful experience. He had simply lost sight of her
itstruckhimwhathesaid, hewashorrifiedathis thought-
said, "dear, dear Madam Mina, alas! that I of all who so
not deserve so; butyou will forget it, will you not?" He
looking athim through her tears, said hoarsely:-
"No, I shall not forget, for itiswellthat I remember;
sweet, that I take it all together. Now, you must all be
wemay be strong."
"Now, my dear friends, we go forth to our terrible
enterprise. Are we all armed, as we were on that night
when first we visited our enemy's lair; armed against
ghostly as well as carnal attack?" We all assured him.

return-if Weshall return! But before wego let me
seeyou armedagainstpersonalattack. I have myself, since
you came down, prepared your chamber by the placing
of things of which we know, so that He may not enter.
Now let meguardyourself. OnyourforeheadItouchthis
piece of Sacred Wafer in the name of the Father, the
There was a fearful scream which almost froze our
hearts to hear. As he had placed the Wafer on Mina's
forehead, it had seared it had burned into the flesh as
though it had been a piece of white-hot metal. My poor
so overwhelmed her that her overwrought nature had its
voice in that dreadful scream. But the words to her
thought came quickly; the echo of the scream had not
ment. Pullingherbeautifulhairoverher face, as the leper
lutedflesh! I mustbearthis mark of shameuponmy fore-
head until the Judgment Day." They all paused. I had
minutes our sorrowful hearts beat together, whilst the
gravely that Icould nothelp feeling that he was in some
"It may be that you may have to bear that mark till
Godhimself see fit, as He most surely shall, on the Judg-
Mina, my dear, mydear, may we who love you be there
to see, when that red scar, the sign of God's knowledge
as pure as the heart we know. For so surely as we live,
that scar shall pass away whenGod sees right to lift the
burdenthat ishard upon us. Tillthen we bear our Cross,

as His Son did in obedience to His Will. It may bethat
each other. We menpledged ourselves to raise the veil of
sorrow from the head of her whom, each in his own way,
terrible task which lay beforeus.
It was then time to start. So I said farewellto Mina, a
parting which neither of us shall forgetto ourdying day;
To one thing I have made up my mind: if we find out
that Mina must be a vampire in the end, then she shall
justastheirhideous bodiescouldonly rest in sacredearth,
the same as on the first occasion. It was hard to believe
not been terrible memories to spur us on, wecouldhardly
have proceeded with our task. We found no papers, or
Helsing said to us solemnly as we stoodbefore them:-
must sterilise this earth, so sacred of holy memories, that
He has chosen this earth because it has been holy. Thus
wedefeat himwith his own weapon, for wemake it more

of the cases was thrown open. The earth smelled musty
attention was concentrated onthe Professor. Taking from
his box a piece of the Sacred Wafer he laid it reverently
it home, we aiding him as he worked.
One by one we treated in the same way each of the
When we closed the door behind us, the Professor said
solemnly:-
"Somuch is alreadydone. If itmaybe that with all the
evening may shine on Madam Mina's forehead all white
As we passed across the lawn on ourway to the station-
to catch our train we could see the front of the asylum. I
work there was successfully accomplished. She nodded in
reply to show that she understood. The last I saw, she
was steaming in as we reachedthe platform.
Ihave writtenthis inthetrain.
Piccadilly, 12:30 o'clock. Just before we reached
Fenchurch Street Lord Godalming said to me:-
should have known better." I demurred as to my not shar-

letyou in."
Myheartbeatas Isawthehouseonwhichsomuchofour
neighbours. We sat down on a bench within good view,
as possible. The minutes seemed to pass with leaden feet
as we waited for the coming of the others.
At length we saw a four-wheeler drive up. Out of it, in
with his rush-wovenbasket of tools. Morris paid the cab-
kneelingdownplacedhis bagbesidehim. After searching
through it, he took out a selection of tools which he pro-
ducedtolaybesidehiminorderly fashion.Thenhe stood
employers, made some remark. Lord Godalming smiled,
way with it. After fumbling about for a bit he tried a
the hall. We sat still; my own cigar burnt furiously, but
he held the door partlyopen, steadying it with hisknees,

이
by Quincey Morris, beside whom stood Lord Godalming
lightingacigar.
"The place smells so vilely," said the latter as we came
in. It did indeed smell vilely-like the old chapel at Car-
thatthe Counthadbeenusing the placepretty freely. We
moved to explorethe house, allkeeping together incaseof
might not be in the house. In the dining-room, which lay
at the back of the hall, we found eight boxes of earth.
Eight boxes only out of the nine, which we sought! Our
have found themissingbox. First we opened the shutters
of the window which looked out across a narrow stone-
like the front of a miniature house. There were no win-
dowsinit, sowe were not afraid of being overlooked. We
tools which wehad brought with us we opened them, one
the old chapel. It was evident to us that the Count was
basement to attic, we came to the conclusion that the
Theylayin asort of orderly disorder onthegreatdining-
roomtable. There were title deeds of the Piccadilly house
in a great bundle; deeds of the purchase of the houses

to keep them from the dust. There were also a clothes
containing dirty water which was reddened as if with
sizes, probablythosebelonging to the other houses. When
Quincey Morris taking accurate notes of the various ad-
boxes in these places. The rest of us are, with what pa-
Count.

CHAPTER XXIII
DR. SEWARD'S DIARY
3 October. The time seemed terrible long whilst we
Morris. The Professor tried tokeep our minds active by
usingthemallthe time. Icould see his beneficentpurpose,
Harker. The poor fellow is overwhelmed in amisery that
ergy is still intact; in fact, he is like a living flame. This
mayyet be his salvation, for, ifallgo well, itwill tide him
over thedespairing period; he willthen, in a kind of way,
wake again to the realities of life. Poor fellow, I thought
my own trouble was bad enough, but his ! The Pro-
keep his mind active. What he has been saying was, under
remember, here it is:-
the more I have studied, the greater seems the necessity
to utterly stamp him out. All through there are signs of
of it. As I learned from the researches of my friend
Arminus of Buda-Pesth, he was inlife a most wonderful
the highest development of the science-knowledge of his
time. He had amighty brain, alearning beyond compare,

ofknowledge of his time that he did not essay. Well, in
him thebrainpowers survivedthephysicaldeath; though
itwould seemthat memory was not allcomplete. Insome
his path he would beyet he may be yet if we fail-the
father or furtherer of a new order of beings, whose road
must lead through Death, not Life."
against my darling! But how is he experimenting? The
knowledgemayhelp us todefeat him!"
"He has all along, since his coming, been trying his
power, slowly but surely; that big child-brain of his is
working. Well for us, it is, as yet, achild-brain; for had
he dared, at the first, to attempt certain things he would
motto."
mybrain."
he spoke:-
"Ah, my child, I will be plain. Do you not see how, of
late, this monster has been creeping into knowledge ex-
perimentally. Howhe has beenmaking use of the zoöpha-
gouspatient to effect his entry into friend John's home;
first all these so great boxes were moved by others. He
knew notthenbutthat mustbeso. Butallthetime that so
consider whether he might not himself move the box. So

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 335
where they are hidden. He mayhave intendto bury them
deep intheground. So that heonlyusethem inthenight,
place! But, my child, do notdespair; this knowledge come
to him just too late! Already all of his lairs but one be
layed this morning that so we might be sure. Is there not
of us when those absent ones return."
Whilst hewas speaking we were startled by a knock at
"Look out for D. Hehas just now, 12:45, come from
Mina".
voice:-
momentmaybe our undoings."
to wipe out this brute from the face of creation. I would
sellmysoultodoit!"

hemaypurchase, does not keep faith. But God is merci-
thatdearMadamMina. Thinkyou, how herpainwouldbe
doubled, did she but hear your wild words. Do not fear
shall see the end. The time is coming for action; to-day
Quincey arrive first."
telegram, there came a quiet, resolute knock at the hall
ready to use our various armaments the spiritual in the
hearts musthaveshownuponour faces whenonthe step,
them, the former saying, as they moved along the hall:-
"Itis all right. We foundbothplaces;sixboxes in each
"Destroyed?" asked the Professor.
Quincey said:-
"There's nothing to dobutto wait here. If, however, he
doesn't turn up by five o'clock, we must start off; for
it won't do to leave Mrs. Harker alone after sunset."
who had been consulting his pocket-book. "Nota bene, in
slack of tide, which should be something before one

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY
placewherehewouldsuspect interferenceleast. You must
have been at Bermondsey only a short time before him.
That he is not here already shows that he went to Mile
End next. This took him some time; for he would then
have to be carried over the river insomeway. Believe me,
my friends, weshallnothavelongtowaitnow. Weshould
for we all could hear a key softly inserted in the lock of
thehalldoor.
Icouldnotbut admire, even at such a moment, the way
obeyhim implicitly. Now, the old habit seemed to be re-
when it was opened the Professor could guard it whilst
sight ready to move in front of the window. We waited in
a suspense that made the seconds pass with nightmare
slowness. The slow,carefulsteps camealongthe hall; the
Countwas evidently prepared for some surprise at least
he feared it.
Suddenly with a single boundhe leaped into the room,
us all from the shock of his coming. The first to act was
Harker, who, with a quick movement, threw himself be-
fore the door leading into the room in the front of the
house. Asthe Countsawus, ahorrible sortof snarlpassed
the evil smile as quickly passed into acold stare of lion

themoment I wonderedwhat we weretodo.Ididnotmy-
suddencut at him. Theblow was apowerfulone; onlythe
diabolical quickness of the Count's leap back saved him.
his heart. As it was, the point just cut the cloth of his
Count's face was so hellish, that for a moment I feared
for Harker, though I saw him throw the terrible knife
ster cower back before a similar movement made spon-
His waxenhue became greenish-yellow by the contrast of
on the pallid skin like apalpitating wound. The next in-
money fromthe floor,dashed acrossthe room, threw him-
ing glass, he tumbled into the flagged area below.
Through the sound of the shiveringglass Icouldhearthe
"ting" of the gold, as some of the sovereigns fell on the
flagging.
ground. He, rushingupthesteps, crossedtheflaggedyard,
spoke tous:-
"You think to baffle me,you with your pale faces all
ina row, likesheep in abutcher's. You shall be sorry yet,

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 339
each one of you! You think you have left me without a
placeto rest; but I have more. My revengeisjustbegun!
With a contemptuous sneer, he passed quickly through
of us to speak was the Professor, as, realising the diffi-
culty of following him through the stable, we moved to-
ward thehall.
For if not, why he hurry so? His very tone betray him,
or my ears deceive. Why take that money? You follow
so. Forme, I make surethat nothingheremaybeofuseto
him, if so that he return." As he spoke he put themoney
remaining intohis pocket; tookthe title-deeds in the bun-
things into the open fireplace, where he set fire to them
withamatch.
Harker had lowered himself from the window to follow
bythetime theyhad forceditopenthere was no sign of
seenhimdepart.
far off. We had to recognisethat ourgame was up; with
heavy hearts we agreed with the Professor when he
said:-
"Let us go back to Madam Mina-poor, poor dear
there,atleast, protect her. But we need not despair. There
when that it done all may yet be well." I could see that
he spoke as bravely as he could to comfort Harker. The

thinking of his wife,
With sad hearts we came back to my house, where we
fishness. Whenshe saw our faces, herown became as pale
as death: for a second or two her eyes were closed as if
rest it. All willyet be well, dear! God will protect us if
There was no place for wordsinhissublime misery.
think it cheered us allup somewhat. It was, perhaps, the
without hope. True to our promise, wetold Mrs. Harker
When we came to the part where Harker had rushed at
brought right upto thepresenttime. Then without letting
her loving kindness against our grim hate; her tender

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 341
to bear something in mind through all this dreadful time.
I know that you must fight that you must destroy even
as you destroyed the false Lucy so that the true Lucy
might live hereafter; but it is not a work of hate. That
poor soul who has wrought all this misery is the saddest
case of all. Just think what will be his joy when he, too,
is destroyed in his worser part that his better part may
have spiritual immortality.Youmustbepitifultohim, too,
draw together, as though the passioninhim were shrivel-
ling his being to its core. Instinctively the clasp on his
She did not flinch from the pain which I knew she must
have suffered, but looked athimwith eyes that were more
todestroythatearthly life of him whichwe areaiming at.
burning hell I woulddo it!"
"Oh, hush! oh, hush! in the name of the good God.
have been thinking allthis long, longday of it-that
perhaps someday I, too, mayneed suchpity; a.n.d.
deed I would have spared you such a thought had there
treasuredyour wildwords, except asthe heart-broken wail
these poor whitehairs go inevidence of what he has suf-

342 .
Wemenwere all intears now. There was no resisting
two lovinghearts alone with their God.
Before they retired the Professor fixed up the room
Harker that she might rest in peace. She tried to school
safety of the poor stricken lady. The first watch falls to
Quincey, sothe restofusshallbe off to bed as soon as we
ond watch. Now that my work is done I, too, shall go to
bed.
3-4 October, close to midnight. I thought yesterday
would neverend. Therewas over me a yearning for sleep,
insome sort of blind belief that to wake wouldbe to find
better. Before weparted, wediscussed what our next step
was tobe, but we could arrive at no result. All we knew
knew where it was. If he chooses to lie hidden, he may
toohorrible, Idarenotthinkofitevennow. This Iknow:
that one is my poor wronged darling. I love her a thou-
that made my own hate of the monster seem despicable.
SurelyGod will not permitthe world to be the poorer by
theloss of such acreature. This ishope to me. We are all

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 343
dreams. I fear what her dreams might be like, with such
terrible memories to ground them in. She has not been
so calm, within my seeing, since the sunset. Then, for a
while, there came over her face a repose which was like
spring after the blasts of March. I thought at the time
that itwasthe softness of the red sunset on her face, but
sleepy myself, though Iamweary-weary to death. How-
ever, I must try to sleep; for there is to-morrow to think
Later-. I must have fallen asleep, for I was awaked
byMina, whowassittingupinbed, withastartledlookon
her face. I could seeeasily, for wedid not leavetheroom
"Hush! there is someone in the corridor!" I got up
Just outside, stretched on a mattress, lay Mr. Morris,
whisperedtome:-
"Hush! go back to bed; it is all right. One of us will
smile stole over her poor, pale face as she put her arms
sleepy, though I must try again. 1
4October, morning.---Onceagainduringthenight I was
wakenedby Mina. This time wehad allhad agood sleep,
for thegreyof thecomingdawn wasmakingthe windows
"Why?" I asked.

speak. Go quick, dearest;thetime isgetting close." I went
singat once.'
room.
Godalmingwere with Dr. Seward at the doorasking ques-
tions. When the Professor saw Mina a smile-a positive
as he said:-
as of old, backtous to-day!" Then turning to her, he said,
freely. Be quick, for the time is short!" Without a word
he motioned her to sit up in bed.
Looking fixedly at her, he commenced to make passes
in front of her, from overthetop ofher head downward,
few minutes, during which my ownheart beat like a trip
gentle heaving of her bosom could one knowthat she was
with great beads of perspiration. Mina opened her eyes;
theProfessor motionedtome to bring theothers in. They

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY
at the foot of the bed, looking on. Mina appeared not to
speaking in a low level tone which would not break the
current of her thoughts:-
the Professor stood staring at her fixedly; the rest of us
hardly dared to breathe. The room was growing lighter;
the Professor spoke again:-
with intention; it were as though she were interpreting
something. I have heard her usethe sametonewhen read-
"What do you see?"
"What do you hear?" I could detect the strain in the
Professor's patient voice.
"Thenyou are on a ship?" We all looked at each other,
"Oh, yes !"
"What else doyou hear?"
"The sound of men stamping overhead as they run
"What are you doing?"
"I'm still-oh, sostill. Itislikedeath!" Thevoice faded
eyes closedagain.

pillow. She lay like a sleeping child for a few moments,
see all around her, "Have I been talking in my sleep?"
was all she said. She seemed, however, to know the situa-
tionwithout telling, though she was eager to know what
she had told. The Professor repeated the conversation,
"Thenthere is not amoment tolose: itmay not be yet
door but the Professor's calm voice called them back:-
"Stay, my friends. That ship, wherever it was, was
of London. Which of them is it that you seek? God be
it may lead us we know not. We have been blind some-
look back we see what we might have seen looking for-
ward if wehadbeenable to see what wemighthaveseen!.
know now what was inthe Count's mind, when he seize
apack of men following likedogs after a fox, this Lon-
don was no place for him. He have take his last earth-
escape,butno! wefollowhim.TallyHo!as friendArthur
would say when he put on his red frock! Our old fox is
Mina looked athimappealinglyas she asked:-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 347
"But why need we seek him further, when he is gone
plied:-
"Askmenothings asyet. Whenwehavebreakfast, then
separated to dress.
After breakfast Mina repeated her question. He looked
ever mustwe findhimeven if wehave to followhimtothe
jaws of Hell!" She grew paler as she asked faintly:-
"Why?"
dreaded-since once he putthat markuponyour throat."
Iwasjustintime tocatch her as she fell forward ina
faint.

CHAPTER XXIV
HELSING
You areto stay withyourdear Madam Mina. We shall
Letmetellyou that so youwillknow what we four know
already, for I have tell them. He, our enemy, have gone
earth-box was readyto ship somewheres. For this he took
themoney; forthis hehurry atthe last, lest we catch him
beforethe sun godown. Itwas his last hope, savethat he
might hide in the tomb that he think poor Miss Lucy,
being as hethought like him, keep opento him. But there
was not of time. When that failhe make straight for his
last resource-his last earthwork I might say did I wish
double entente. He is clever, oh, so clever! he know that
Minawith new hope. For it willbe hope when you think
it over: thatallisnot lost. This verycreature that wepur-
sue, he take hundreds of years to get so far as London;
himwedrivehim out. He is finite, though he is powerful

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 349
win-so sure as that God sits onhigh to watch over His
children. Therefore be of much comfort till we return.
sage in the phonograph, the poor girl brightened up con-
siderably. Already the certainty that the Count is out of
not face to face with us, it seems almost impossible to
believe in it. Even my own terrible experiences in Castle
crisp autumn air in the bright sunlight
my eye fell on the red scar on my poor darling's white
afterwards the very memory of it willkeep faith crystal
out, which is comforting. Mina says that perhaps we are
the instruments of ultimate good. It may be! I shall try
to think as shedoes. We have never spoken to each other
yetofthe future. Itisbetterto waittill wesee the Profes-
aday could run for me again. It is now three o'clock.
Mina Harker's Journal.
5 October, 5 p. m. Our meeting for report. Present:

somewhere in the Black Sea, sinceby that way he come.
what ships leave for the Black Sea last night. He was in
sailing ship, since Madam Mina tell of sails being set.
Godalming, to your Lloyd's, where are note of all ships
that sail, however so small. There we find that only one
Black-Sea-bound ship go out with the tide. She is the
which he havehiddeep in hisclothing, he stillbetter fel-
toowhenthey have been no more thirsty. They saymuch
"They make known to us among them, how last after-
eyes that seem to be burning. That he be all in black, ex-
ceptthathehave ahat of strawwhich suit not him or the
time. That he scatter his money in making quick inquiry

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 351
askthat thecaptaincometohim. The captain come, when
onwhich agreat box; this he himself liftdown, though
it take several to put it on truck for the ship. He give
where it shall be. But he say 'no'; that he come not yet,
for that he have much to do. Whereupon thecaptaintell
him that he had better be quick-withblood-for that his
shipwillleavetheplace ofblood-beforethe turn ofthe
coursehemustgowhenhethinkfit;buthewillbesurprise
ifhe go quite so soon. The captain swear again, polyglot,
thathewillsofarintrudeonhiskindnessastocome aboard
might purchase ship forms, hedeparted.
"No one knew where he went 'or bloomin' well cared,'
as they said, fortheyhadsomething else to think of-well
withblood again; for itsoon became apparent to all that
the Czarina Catherine would not sailas was expected. A
around her. The captain swore polyglot-very polyglot-
wouldlosethetidealtogether. Hewasinnofriendlymood,

by himself, for none notice him. Indeed they thought not
down on the river that hour, he found that few of them
wasdoubtless by morning fardownthe river mouth. She
was by then, whentheytold us, welloutto sea.
rest for a time, for our enemy is on the sea, with the fog
Ourbesthopeis tocomeonhimwheninthe boxbetween
wemaydealwithhimas we should. There aredays forus,
where he go; for we haveseenthe owner oftheship,who
'no'; for what is to be done is not for police or of the
way."
if he were certain that the Count had remained on board
the ship. He replied: "We have the best proof of that:
ing."1 askedhimagainifitwerereallynecessarythat they

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 353
full, till in the end we could not but see wherein was at
long amaster amongst men:-
"Yes, it is necessary-necessary-necessary! For your
monster has done muchharmalready, inthe narrow scope
he was only as a body groping his so small measure in
others; you, my dear Madam Mina, will learn it in the
phonograph of my friend John, or in that of your hus-
done, perhaps notallthecenturies of the world that have
been, or that will be, could aid him. With this one, all
must have worked together in some wondrous way. The
very place, where he have been alive, Un-Dead for all
there is something magnetic or electric in some of these
combinations ofoccultforceswhichwork forphysical life
that he have more iron nerve, more subtle brain, more
All this without that diabolic aid which is surely to him;
haveinfectyou-oh, forgiveme, mydear, that Imust say

such; but it is for good of you that I speak. He infect
you in such wise, that even if he do no more, you have
be! We have sworn together that it must not. Thus are
for whom His Son die, will not be given over to mon-
sters, whose very existence would defame Him. He have
the old knights of the Cross to redeem more. Like them
"But will not the Count take his rebuff wisely? Since
atiger does the village fromwhichhehas beenhunted?"
"Aha!" he said,"your simile of the tigergood, for me,
no more for the other prey, but prowl unceasingly till he
get him. Thisthatwehunt fromourvillage is a tiger, too,
onhis own ground; he be beaten back, butdidhe stay?
tohim hehave long sinceconceive the idea of coming to
agreatcity. Whatdoeshedo? Hefind outtheplaceofall
theworld most of promise for him. Then he deliberately
set himself down to prepare for the task. He find in pa-
He study new tongues. He learn new social life; new
have come to be since he was. His glimpse that he have
ithelphimtogrowas tohisbrain; for itallprovetohim
howrighthewasatthe firstinhissurmises. Hehavedone

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 355
What more may he not do when the greater world of
he notbe in this old world of ours. Rut we are pledged
efforts all in secret; for inthis enlightenedage, when men
believe not even what they see,thedoubting of wise men
1 would be his greatest strength. It would be at once his
enemies, who are willing to peril even our own souls for
After a general discussion it was determined that for
to-night nothing be definitely settled; that we should all
shall decide onsomedefinite cause of action.
some haunting presence were removed from me. Per-
haps....
Mysurmisewas not finished,could notbe; for I caught
sight in the mirror of the red mark upon my forehead;
Dr. Seward's Diary.
of us had ever expected to experience again.
It is really wonderful how much resilience there is in

as we sat around the table, my eyes opened in wonder
whether thewholeofthepastdays had not been adream.
Itwasonlywhen I caught sight of the redblotch on Mrs.
Harker's foreheadthat I wasbroughtbacktoreality. Even
now, whenI amgravely revolving the matter, it is almost
impossible to realise that the cause of all our trouble is
stillexistent. Even Mrs. Harker seems to lose sight of her
something recalls it to her mind, that she thinks of her
somemysteriouswaypoor Mrs. Harker's tongue is tied. I
to talkit over when we are alone. I suppose it is some of
thathorridpoisonwhichhasgot intoherveinsbeginningto
work. The Counthad his own purposes whenhe gaveher
blood." Well, theremaybeapoisonthatdistils itselfoutof
know: that if my instinct be true regarding poor Mrs.
thatcompelshersilencemaycompelher speech. I dare not
think further; for so I should in my thoughts dishonour
others. I shalltrytoopenthesubject withhim.
Later. WhentheProfessorcamein, wetalked overthe
state of things. I could seethat he had something on his
broaching the subject. After beating about the bush a lit-
tle,he said suddenly:-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 357
have to take the others into our confidence"; then he
stopped, so I waited; hewent on:-
"With the sad experience of Miss Lucy, we must this
timebe warned beforethings go too far. Our task is now
characteristics ofthe vampirecoming inher face. Itis now
but very, very slight; but itistobe seen if we have eyes
to noticewithouttoprejudge. Her teeth are some sharper,
there is to her the silence now often; as so it was with
Miss Lucy. She did not speak, even when she wrote
that whichr she wished to be known later. Now my fear is
pel her mind to disclose to him that which she know?" I
nodded acquiescence; he went on:-
"Then, what we must do is to prevent this; we must
sheknownot. Thisisapainfultask! Oh, sopainful that it
heart-break me to think of; but it must be. When to-day
we meet, I musttellher that for reason which we will not
tospeakshemustnotmorebeofourcouncil,butbesimply
guardedby us." He wiped his forehead, which had broken
out in profuse perspiration at the thought of the pain
which he mighthave to inflict uponthepoor soul already
so tortured. I knew that it would be some sort of com-
fort tohim if I told him that I alsohad come to the same
painfulpart of it. Ireallybelieve his purpose istobe able
to prayalone.

Later. At the very outset of our meeting a great per-
saythat she wouldnotjoinusatpresent, asshethought it
better that we should be free to discuss our movements
seemed relieved. For my own part, I thought that if Mrs.
lip, to preserve silence in our suspicions, until we should
havebeenable toconfer alone again. Wewentatonce into
before us first:-
"The Czarina Catherine left the Thames yesterday
morning. Itwilltakeheratthequickestspeed shehas ever
we allow for two days less for the ship's voyage, owing to
of nearly two weeks. Thus, in order to be quite safe, we
suchpreparations as maybe necessary. Of course we shall
allgo armed-armed against evil things, spiritual as well
as physical." Here Quincey Morris added:-
posethatwe add Winchesters to our armament. Ihave a
that sort around. Doyouremember, Art, when we had the
pack after us at Tobolsk? What wouldn't we have given
thenforarepeaterapiece!"
Quincey's headislevelatalltimes,butmost sowhenthere

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 359
journey."
"We four?" said Harker interrogatively, looking from
must remaintotakecare ofyour so sweet wife!" Harker
consult with Mina." I thought that now was the time for
turned away.
5October, afternoon. For sometimeafter ourmeeting
thismorning Icouldnotthink. The new phases of things
leavemymind in a state of wonder whichallows no room
arguethe matter with her, I couldonlyguess. I am as far
as ever from a solution now. The waythe others received
it, too, puzzled me; the lasttime we talked of the subject
we agreed that there was to be no more concealment of
still forher.
earthtookits shadows fromthe sun sinking lower,the si
said:-

word of honour. Apromisemade to me, but madeholily
Quick,youmustmake itto me at once."
once. Imayhave no right tomake it."
"But, dear one," she said, with such spiritual intensity
not right; if he disagrees you may do as you will. Nay,
more, if you all agree, later, you are absolved from the
promise."
premelyhappy;thoughtomeallhappiness forher wasde-
niedbythered scaronher forehead. She said:-
adoorhadbeen shutbetweenus.
the evening. So much so that all the rest seemed to take
courage, as if infected somewhat with her gaiety; as a re-
sulteven Imyself feltas ifthe pallofgloom which weighs
usdownwere somewhat lifted. We all retired early. Mina
is now sleeping like a little child; it is a wonderful thing
thatherfacultyofsleepremains toherinthemidstof her
as her gaietydid to-night. I shalltry it. Oh! for a dream-
less sleep.

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 361
Professor. He had evidently expected some such call, for
I foundhimdressedinhis room. His door wasajar, sothat
he could hear the opening of the door of our room. He
came at once; as he passed into the room, he asked Mina
iftheothersmightcome,too.
"No," she said quite simply, "it will not be necessary.
journey."
ment's pause he asked:-
"Butwhy?"
you shall be safer, too."
"But why, dear Madam Mina? You know that your
embarrassed.
forehead:-
whilst the sun is coming up; I may not be able again. I
knowthatwhenthe Countwills me Imustgo. Iknow that
if he tells meto come in secret, I must come by wile; by
speak; my emotion was too great for even the relief of
tears. She wenton:-
Helsing said verygravely:-
"Madam Mina, you are, as always, most wise. You shall
forth to achieve." When hehadspoken, Mina's long spell
of silence mademelookather. Shehadfallenbackonher

pillowasleep; shedidnotevenwakewhenIhadpulledup
"Inthemorningweshallleave forVarna. We have now
"What shall we do exactly?" asked Mr. Morris laconi-
cally. The Professorpausedbefore replying:-
"We shall at the first board that ship; then, when we
rose on it. This we shall fasten, for whenitis therenone
the opportunity that we seek, when none are near to see,
Iam tobewiped out foritthe next moment!" I grasped
steel. I thinkheunderstoodmylook; I hopehedid.
butsaywhatwe may do-what we mustdo.But, indeed,
are so variousthatuntilthemoment wemaynot say. We
endhas come, our effort shall notbe lack. Nowlet us to-
dayputallouraffairs inorder. Let all things which touch

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 363
ney."
whatever maycome.
Mina if she surviveis mysole heir. If itshould notbe so,
thentheotherswho have been sogood to usshallhave re-
mainder.
Itis nowdrawingtowards the sunset; Mina's uneasiness
calls my attentionto it. I am sure that there is something
on her mind which the time of exact sunset will reveal.
These occasions are becoming harrowing times for us all,
some new pain, which, however, may in God's will be
sincemydarlingmustnothearthemnow;butifitmaybe
She is calling to me.

CHAPTER XXV
DR. SEWARD'S DIARY
I think that none of us were surprised when we were
asked to see Mrs. Harker a little before the time of sun-
sunset are to hertimes of peculiar freedom; when her old
ingor restraining her, or incitinghertoaction. Thismood
or condition begins some halfhour or more before actual
whilst the clouds are still aglow with the rays streaming
above the horizon. At firstthere is a sort of negative con-
freedom quickly follows; when, however, the freedom
only by a spell of warning silence.
To-night, when we met, shewas somewhat constrained,
she could do so. A very few minutes, however, gave her
to sitbesideher onthe sofa where she washalf reclining,
she made the rest of us bring chairs upclose. Taking her
"We are all here together in freedom, for perhaps the
last time! I know, dear; I know that you will always be
had, as wecould see,tighteneduponhers."Inthemorning

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 365
me as to take me with you. I know that all that brave
-you will do. But you must remember that I am not as
you are. There is a poison inmy blood, in my soul, which
may destroy me; which mustdestroy me, unless some re
liefcomestous. Oh, my friends,youknow as well as I do,
"What is that way, which we must not-maynot take?"
set free my immortal spirit, even as you did my poor
Lucy's. Were death, or the fear of death, the only thing
thatstoodinthe way I would not shrinkto die here, now,
not believe that todie insuch a case, whenthere is hope
fore, I, on my part, give up here the certainty of eternal
thingsthatthe worldorthe netherworldholds!" We were
all silent, for we knew instinctively that this was only a
whatwascoming.Shecontinued:-
butnotethequaint legal phrase which sheused in such a
give? Your lives I know," she went on quickly, "that is
give them back to Him; but what willyou give to me?"
She looked again questioningly, but this time avoided her

come, youwillkillme."
"What is that time?" The voice was Quincey's, but it
itisbetterthatIdiethatImaylive. WhenIamthusdead
inthe flesh, thenyouwill,without amoment's delay, drive
Quinceywas the first to rise after thepause. He knelt
emnly:-
"I'm onlya rough fellow, whohasn't, perhaps, lived as
come, I shall not flinch fromthedutythat you have set
for if I am onlydoubtfulI shall take itthatthe time has
come!"
"My true friend!" was allshecouldsayamid her fast-
Helsing.
kneelingtoher to takethe oath. I followed, myself. Then
asked:-
"You too, my dearest," she said, with infiniteyearning
there have been times when brave men have killed their
more because those that they loved implored them to slay
them. It is men's duty towards those whom they love, in

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 367
gottenyour mercy in poor Lucy'scase to him who loved"
-"to him who had best right to give her peace. If that
time shall come again, I look to you to make it a happy
which set me free fromtheawfulthrall uponme."
Mrs. Harker smiled, positively smiled, as with a sigh of
must never forget: this time, if it ever come, maycome
notimeinusingyouropportunity.Atsuchatime Imyself
might be-nay! ifthe time ever comes, shall be-leagued
withyourenemyagainstyou."
"One more request," she became very solemn as she
acquiesced, but no one spoke; there was no need to
speak:-
mustread it over me some day. Whatever may bethe issue
ofallthis fearful state ofthings, itwillbea sweetthought
toallor someofus. You, mydearest, willI hope read it,
for then it willbe inyourvoice inmymemory for ever-
comewhatmay!"
"But oh, my dear one," he pleaded,"death is afar off
fromyou.' دو
earthlygravelayheavyuponme!"

would have been meltedto theheart had he seenthatlittle
zarre as it may hereafter seem even to us who felt its
silence, which showed Mrs. Harker's coming relapse from
of us as we had dreaded.
15 October, Varna.-We left Charing Cross on the
theplaces secured for usin the Orient Express. We trav-
gram had arrived for him, whilst the rest of us came on
to this hotel “the Odessus." The journey may have had
incidents; I was, however, too eager to get on, tocare for
them. Until the Czarina Catherine comes into port there
her colour is coming back. She sleeps a great deal;
throughoutthejourneyshesleptnearlyallthetime.Before
to have power at theseparticularmoments to simply will,

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 369
that the Czarina Catherine is still at sea, hastening onher
way to Varna. LordGodalminghas justreturned. He had
the same effect: that the Czarina Catherine had not been
fore leaving Londonthat his agent should sendhim every
day a telegram saying if the ship had been reported. He
was to have a message even if she were not reported, so
thathemight be surethatthere was a watchbeing kept at
the other end of the wire.
before he wakes. What mercyheshall get fromuswillnot
count for much. We think that we shall not have much
suppliedwithmoney. We have only to make sure that the
Moneybag will settlethiscase, I think!
16October.-Mina's reportstillthesame:lappingwaves
Catherine we shallbe ready.As shemustpass theDarda-
nelles we are suretohavesomereport.

17 October.Everything is pretty well fixed now, I
think, to welcome the Count on his return from his tour.
sent aboard might containsomething stolen from a friend
own risk. Theownergave him apapertelling the Captain
to give him every facility indoing whatever he chose on
at Varna. We have seen the agent, who was much im-
vent interference, even if we have to use the arms which
so treat the Count's body, it willsoon after fall intodust.
Insuchcasetherewouldbe no evidenceagainstus, incase
daythisveryscriptmaybeevidencetocomebetween some
is seen, we are to be informed by a special messenger.
24 October. Awhole week ofwaiting. Daily telegrams
toGodalming,butonlythesamestory:"Notyetreported."
Telegram, October 24th.
Rufus Smith, Lloyd's, London, to Lord Godalming, care
of H. B. M. Vice-Consul, Varna.
"Czarina Catherine reported thismorning from Darda-
nelles".

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 371
Dr. Seward'sDiary.
25 October. How I miss my phonograph! To write
must. We were all wild with excitement yesterday when
Godalming got his telegram from Lloyd's. I know now
what men feel inbattle when the call to action is heard.
were in her presence. Inolddays she would, I am sure,
have noticed, no matter how wemight have tried to con-
often; we have not, however, saidaword totheothers. It
wouldbreakpoorHarker'sheart certainly his nerve-if
Helsing examines, he tells me, her teeth very carefully,
whilstsheis inthehypnoticcondition, for he says that so
long as they do not begin to sharpen there is no active
would be necessary to take steps! We both know
whatthosestepswouldhaveto be, thoughwedo notmen-
tionour thoughtsto each other. We should neither of us
shrink from the task-awful though itbe to contemplate.
gratefultowhoeverinventedit.
here,attheratetheCzarina CatherinehascomefromLon-
don. She should therefore arrive some time inthe morn-
made all about to retire early. We shall get up at one
o'clock, soastobe ready.
25 October, Noon.-No news yet of the ship's arrival.
Mrs. Harker's hypnoticreportthismorningwas the same

ment. We men are all in a fever of excitement, except
agoI found him whetting the edge of the great Ghoorka
knifewhichhe now always carries with him. It willbea
badlookoutfortheCount iftheedgeofthat "Kukri" ever
Harker to-day.About noonshegot intoasort of lethargy
whichwedidnotlike;althoughwekeptsilencetotheoth-
ers, we were neither of us happy about it. She had been
restless all the morning, so that we were at first glad to
mentioned casually that she was sleeping so soundly that
hecouldnotwakeher,wewenttoherroomtosee forour-
peacefulthat weagreed that the sleep was better for her
thatitisnowonderthatsleep, if itbringsoblivion toher,
doeshergood.
Later. Ouropinionwasjustified, forwhenafter a re-
freshing sleep of some hours she woke up, she seemed
shemadetheusualhypnoticreport. Whereverhe maybe
inthe Black Sea,theCountishurryingtohisdestination.
Tohisdoom. I trust!
Catherine. She ought to behereby now. That she is still
journeyingsomewhere is apparent, forMrs. Harker's hyp-
notical report at sunrise was stillthe same. It ispossible
thatthevesselmaybelyingby,attimes, for fog; some of
the steamers which came inlastevening reported patches
moment.

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 373
though she added that "the waves were very faint." The
telegrams from Londonhavebeenthe same: "no further
nowthathe fears the Count is escapingus. He added sig-
"I did not like that lethargy of Madam Mina's. Souls
tomakeher speak more fullywhen inherhypnotic state.
28 October. Telegram. Rufus Smith, London, to Lord
Godalming, care H. B. M. Vice Consul, Varna.
"Czarina Catherine reported entering Galatz at one
o'clock to-day."
Dr. Seward'sDiary
of usas might havebeenexpected. True, wedidnotknow
whence, orhow, orwhen,theboltwouldcome;but I think
delay of arrival at Varna made us individually satisfied
thatthingswouldnotbejustas wehadexpected; we only
less, however, was it a surprise. I suppose that nature
works on such ahopefulbasis that webelieve against our-
selves that things will be as they ought to be, not as we

withthatquickmovementwhichIknewsowell; inourold
ghastly white, so that the scar on her forehead seemed to
prayer. Harker smiled actually smiled-the dark, bitter
smileof onewhois withouthope;butatthesame time his
usgenerally.
"At6:30 to-morrow morning!" We all started, for the
"How onearthdoyou know?" saidArt.
"You forget orperhapsyoudo notknow,though Jon-
train fiend. Athome in Exeter I always used tomake up
it souseful sometimes, that I always make a study of the
throughBucharest, so I learned the times very carefully.
to-morrow leaves as I say."
ferent fromyours or mine; even if we did have a special,
it wouldprobably not arrive as soon as our regular train.
Moreover, we have something to prepare. We must think.
Galatz, with authority to make search the ship just as it
make ourway smooth, so thatnotimes be lost when over
we shall consult. For so if time be long you may be de

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 375
herewith Madamtomake report."
as I used to do. Something is shifting from me insome
The threeyounger men looked happier at the moment as
ever.
Helsing asked Mrs. Harker to look up the copy of the
Castle. Shewent away to get it; when thedoor was shut
uponherhesaidtome:-
for itmaydeceiveus."
"Quite so. Do you know why I asked her to get the
ingmealone."
"You are in part right, friendJohn, butonly in part. I
ing a great a terrible-risk; but I believe it is right. In
themomentwhen Madam Mina said those words that ar-
to read her mind; or more likehetookher to see him in
his earth-box inthe ship with water rushing, justas it.go
for she have more to tell inher open life with eyes to see
Now he make hismosteffort to escape us.At present he
"He is sure with his so great knowledge that she will
outof his own power, that so she come not to him. Ah!

shalllearn.Oh, John, my friend, weare inawfulstraits. I
goodGod. Silence! here she comes!"
I thought that the Professor was going to breakdown
fect nervous poise when Mrs. Harker tripped into the
seemingly forgetful of her misery. As she came in, she
He looked over them gravely, his face brightening up as
thumbhe said:-
"FriendJohn,toyouwithsomuchofexperiencealready
hereisalesson: do not fear everto think. Ahalf-thought
hasbeenbuzzing often inmy brain,but I feartolethim
loosehiswings. Herenow, withmoreknowledge, Igoback
benohalf-thoughtatall;thatbeawholethought, though
soyoung that he is not yet strong to usehis little wings.
sail nobly on big wings, when the time come for him to
again, brought his forces over The Great River into Tur-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 377
bloody field where his troops were being slaughtered,
sinceheknewthat he alonecouldultimatelytriumph.'"
"What does this tell us? Not much? no! The Count's
child-thoughtseenothing;thereforehespeakso free.Your
onewhospeakwithoutthoughtbecauseshe,too, know not
ments which rest, yet when innature's course they move
stroy some; but that show up allearth below for leagues
Madam Mina; for crime touch you not-not but once.
ad universale. Thereisthis peculiarityincriminals. It is so
who know not much from philosophy, come to know it
empirically, that it is. That istobe empiric. The criminal
always work at one crime that is the true criminal who
brain. He be ofchild-braininmuch.Nowthis criminal of
oursispredestinatetocrimealso;he,too,havechild-brain,
the ground to start from to do more. 'Dos pon sto,'
world! To do once, is the fulcrum whereby child-brain
more, he continue to do the same again every time, just
ashehavedonebefore! Oh, mydear, Iseethatyour eyes
hereyes sparkled. Hewenton:-

"Nowyou shall speak. Tellustwo dry men of science
as she spoke:-
isofimperfectly formedmind. Thus, inadifficultyhehas
that oncebefore, when in what Mr. Morris would call a
'tight place,' he went back to his own country from the
purpose,preparedhimself for a new effort. Hecame again
fledbackoverthe seatohishome;justas formerlyhehad
ment laterhesaidtome,ascalmlyas thoughwehadbeen
having a sick-room consultation:-
hope." Turning toher again, he said with keen expecta-
tion:-
"But go on. Go on! thereismoretotellifyou will. Be
tellyouifyouareright. Speak,without fear!"
"I willtry to; butyou will forgive me if I seem egotis-
tical."
"Nay! fear not,youmustbeegotist, foritis ofyouthat
wethink."
himselftoonepurpose. Thatpurposeisremorseless.As he
pieces, so now he is intent onbeing safe, careless of all.
So his own selfishness frees my soul somewhat from the
terriblepower whichheacquiredovermeonthatdreadful

DR. SEWARD'S DIARY ' 379
ordream he may haveusedmyknowledge for his ends."
The Professor stood up:-
in Varna, whilstthe ship thatcarriedhim rushed through
enveloping foguptoGalatz, where,doubtless, hehadmade
preparation forescaping fromus. Buthischild-mindonly
dence, the very thing that the evil-doer most reckoned on
forhis selfish good, turns outtobe his chiefestharm. The
hunteristakeninhisownsnare,asthegreatPsalmist says.
For now that he think he is free from every trace of us
then his selfish child-brain will whisper him to sleep. He
think, too, that as he cut himself off from knowing your
wherehe fail! Thatterriblebaptismofbloodwhichhegive
youmakesyou free togotohim inspirit, asyou have as
even cut himself off from his knowledge of our where.
ifweperil ourselvesthatwebecomelikehim. FriendJohn,
down, sothatwhentheothers return from their workyou
she brought theMS. tous.

CHAPTER XXVI
DR. SEWARD'SDIARY
29 October. This iswritten inthetrainfromVarnato
Galatz. Lastnightweall assembled alittlebeforethetime
of sunset. Each of us had done his work as well as
forourworkwhenwegettoGalatz. Whentheusualtime
came round Mrs. Harker prepared herself for her hyp-
ping, but only a steady swirl of water softly running
gunis fired somewhere; the echo of it seems far away.
aredraggedalong.Whatisthis?Thereisagleamof light;
Hereshestopped.Shehadrisen,asif impulsively, from
was a long pause. We all knew that the time when she
could speak was passing; but we felt that it was useless
hereyes, said sweetly:-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 381
"Wouldnoneofyoulikeacupoftea? You mustallbe
acquiesced. She bustled off togettea;when shehadgone
earth-chest. Buthe hasyet to get on shore. In the night
hemayliehidden somewhere; butifhebe not carried on
Butifthedaycomebeforehegetonshore, then,unless he
customs men may discover what the box contain. Thus,
infine, if heescapenotonshore to-night, orbeforedawn,
there will bethe whole daylost to him. We maythen ar-
riveintime; for ifheescapenotatnightweshallcome on
ered."
Therewas nomoretobesaid, sowewaited inpatience
until the dawn; at which time wemight learn more from
Mrs. Harker.
timeremaininguntilfullsunrisewas so shortthat webe-
soul into the effort; at last, in obedience to his will she
made reply:-
shotup. We mustwaittillto-night.
agony of expectation. We are due to arrive between two
after sun-up. Thus we shall have two more hypnotic
messages from Mrs. Harker; either or both maypossibly
throwmorelightonwhatishappening.

at a time when there was no distraction; for had it oc-
curred whilst we were at a station, wemight not have se-
morning. I am in fear that her power of reading the
most. It seems to methather imagination is beginning to
confinedherself tothe simplest of facts. If this goes on it
may ultimately mislead us. If I thought that the Count's
poweroverherwould die awayequally with herpower of
knowledge it would be ahappy thought; but I am afraid
thatitmaynotbeso.Whenshedidspeak, her words were
enigmatical:-
her, increasing in intensity for a few seconds, till, at the
end, she shook as though in a palsy. She said no more,
shewas told, she pondered over it deeply for along time
maynothavetimeto write later. Sunrisethis morningwas
fect, however, until the regular time, when she yielded
with astill greater difficulty, onlyaminutebeforethe sun
rose. The Professor lost no time in his questioning; her
"All is dark. I hear water swirling by, level with my

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 383
spairinhiseyes, fortherisensunwas reddeningevenMrs.
cern:-
"Oh, Professor, why ask me to do what you know I
of amazement onour faces, she said, turning fromone to
theother withatroubledlook:-
"What have I said? WhathaveIdone? Iknownothing,
youordermeabout, as if Iwereabadchild!"
"Oh, MadamMina," hesaid,sadly,"itisproof, ifproof
obey!"
The whistles are sounding; we are nearingGalatz. We
Mina Harker'sJournal.
30October.-Mr. Morristookmetothehotelwhereour
roomshadbeenorderedbytelegraph,hebeingtheonewho
been at Varna, except that Lord Godalming went to the
agent to learn particulars of the arrival of the Czarina
Catherine.
Later-. Lord Godalming has returned. The Consul is

agents of theLondon firm ofHapgood. Theyhad received
tookusatonce onboard the Czarina Catherine, which lay
tain,Donelsonbyname,whotold usofhisvoyage.Hesaid
thatinallhislifehehad neverhad so favourablea run.
peckitthatweshouldhavetopayforitwi' somerarepiece
run frae Londonto the Black Seawi' awind ahintye, as
thoughtheDeilhimself wereblawin' onyersail forhis ain
never were withinhailo' aught.AtfirstIinclinedto slack
Ithocht that if the Deil was minded to get us into the
Black Sea quick, he was like to do it whether we would
orno. Ifwehadaquickvoyageitwouldbenotoourmis-
Mon who had served his ain purpose wad be decently
gratefultous fornohinderin' him." This mixtureofsim-
wenton:-

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 385
me to heave overboard abig box which hadbeenput on
outtheirtwafingers whenthey saw him, toguard against
pairfectly rideeculous! I sent them aboot their business
prettyquick; butasjustafterafogclosedinonus I felt
fogdidn't let up for fivedays I joost let the wind carry
mornin' sun came through the fog, we found ourselves
had, mindye, takenthe box onthedeck readyto fling in,
rido' thedam' thing, for Iwasbeginnin' masel' to feelun-

Hildesheim." Burgen-strasse 16wasthe address.Wefound
cameaway.
We found Hildesheim inhis office, aHebrew of rather
fez. His arguments were pointed with specie-we doing
He had received a letter from Mr. de Ville of London,
telling him to receive, if possible before sunrise so as to
avoid customs, abox which would arrive atGalatz inthe
Czarina Catherine. This he wastogive inchargetoacer-
tain Petrof Skinsky, who dealt with the Slovaks who
traded down the river to the port. He had been paid for
heknew.
We then sought for Skinsky, but were unable to find
him. Oneofhisneighbours, whodidnotseemtobear him
lord, whohadreceivedbymessengerthekey of the house
together with the rent due, in English money. This had
lesslygasped outthatthebody of Skinsky hadbeen found
thewomencrying out"Thisistheworkof a Slovak!" We
hurried awaylestweshould havebeen insomewaydrawn
As we came homewe could arriveat nodefiniteconclu-
sion. We were all convinced that the box was on itsway,
bywater, tosomewhere;butwherethat mightbewewould

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 387
havetodiscover. With heavyhearts we came home to the
hotel to Mina.
Whenwemettogether, the firstthingwastoconsult as
to takingMinaagain into our confidence. Things are get-
ous one. As a preliminary step, I was released from my
promisetoher.
Mina Harker's Journal.
hourwhilst I shouldentereverything upto the moment. I
Ishouldhave felt quite astraydoing the work if I had to
writewith apen.
have suffered, what musthebe suffering now. He lies on
pears in collapse. His brows are knit; his face is drawn
seehis faceall wrinkled up withthe concentration of his
thoughts. Oh! if Icouldonly helpat all. Ishalldo
papersthatIhavenotyetseen. Whilsttheyare rest-
at some conclusion. I shall try to follow the Professor's
me.
Idobelievethat underGod's providence I have made a
minuteisprecious.

(Entered in her Journal.)
backtohis ownplace.
(a) Hemust be brought back by some one. This is evi-
dent; for had he power to movehimself as he wished he
way. He evidently fears discovery or interference, in the
state of helplessness inwhichhe must be confinedas he
(b) How is he to be taken? Here a process of exclu-
sionsmayhelp us. Byroad, byrail, bywater?
1. By Road. There are endless difficulties, especially in
leavingthecity.
tigate. Ahint, a surmise, adoubtas to what might be in
thebox, woulddestroy him.
cerstopass.
(z) Hispursuers might follow. This ishishighest fear;
2. By Rail. There is no one in charge of the box. It
wouldbe fatal, withenemies onthe track. True, he might
placewithnorefugethathecould flyto?This isnotwhat
3. By Water. Here is the safest way, in one respect,
move, his positionwouldstillbedesperate.
Weknow fromthe recordthathewas onthe water; 50
what wehave to do is toascertain what water.

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 38
The first thingisto realiseexactly whathehasdoneas
yet; we may, then, getalight onwhat his latertask is to
be.
Firstly. We mustdifferentiatebetween what hedid in
the facts we know of, what he hasdone here.
Astothefirst, heevidently intendedto arrive at Galatz,
the instruction to Petrof Skinsky. These we must only
guessat; but theremusthavebeensome letter ormessage,
since Skinsky came to Hildesheim.
Czarina Catherine made a phenomenally quick journey-
so much so that Captain Donelson's suspicions were
made, has beenproved. Hildesheim cleared the box, took
welosethetrail. We only knowthatthebox is somewhere
Now we come to whatthe Count musthave done after
TheboxwasgiventoSkinskybeforesunrise. At sunrise
theCountcouldappearinhisown form. Here, weaskwhy
Skinsky was chosenat allto aidinthe work? Inmyhus-
showed the general feeling against his class. The Count
My surmise is, this: that inLondon the Count deciderl

tookthe boxes toVarna, for therethey were shipped for
London. Thus the Count had knowledge of the persons
before sunrise or after sunset, he cameout fromhisbox,
the carriage of the box up some river. When this was
traces, ashethought, bymurderinghis agent.
suitable for the Slovaks to have ascended is either the
Pruth or the Sereth. I read inthe typescript that inmy
against stream. There wouldbe no such sound if floating
down stream.
Ofcourse itmay notbe either the Sereth or the Pruth,
butwemaypossiblyinvestigate further. Nowofthesetwo,
the Pruth is the moreeasily navigated, but the Sereth is,
atFundu, joinedbythe Bistritzawhich runsuproundthe
Mina Harker's Journal-continued.
"Our dear Madam Mina is once more our teacher. Her
eyes havebeen where we were blinded. Nowweareonthe
onthewater, ourtaskwillbe over. Hehas a start,but he
is powerless to hasten, as he may not leave his box lest
those who carry him may suspect; for them to suspect
wouldbetopromptthemtothrowhiminthestreamwhere

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY
Godalming.
"Good!" said the Professor, "both good. But neither
must go alone. There must be force to overcome force if
rude arms." All the men smiled, for amongst them they
carried a small arsenal. Said Mr. Morris:-
"I have brought some Winchesters; they are pretty
if you remember, took some other precautions; he made
some requisitions on others that Mrs. Harker could not
Dr. Seward said:-
"Ithink Ihadbettergowith Quincey. Wehave been ac-
amatch for whatever may come along. You must not be
then theboat service would, most likely, be the one which
would destroy the the the ... Vampire.
(Why did I hesitate to•write the word?) He was silent
right to destroy him-that-which has wrought such woe
be my care, if Imay. I am old. My legs are not so quick

die, if need be, as well as younger men. Now let me say
thatwhat Iwouldisthis:whileyou, my LordGodalming
Mina right intothe heart ofthe enemy's country. Whilst
the old fox is tied in his box, floating on the running
not raise the lid of his coffin-box lest his Slovak carriers
should infearleave himtoperish-weshallgo inthe track
sunrisewhenwe arenearthat fatefulplace.There ismuch
ruptedhimhotly:-
with that devil's illness, right into thejaws of his death-
trap? Not for the world! Not forHeaven or Hell!" He
on:-
"Do you know what the place is? Have you seen that
awfuldenofhellishinfamy-withtheverymoonlightalive
the wind adevouring monster in embryo? Have you felt
the Vampire's lips uponyourthroat?" Here he turned to
armswith acry: "Oh, myGod,whathavewedonetohave
collapse of misery. The Professor's voice,ashe spoke in
clear, sweet tones, which seemed to vibrate in the air,
calmed us all:-
"Oh, myfriend,itisbecauseIwouldsave Madam Mina
from that awful place that Iwould go.God forbid that I
should take her intothatplace.There is work-wild work

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 393
-to be done there, that her eyes may not see. We men
berthat weare interrible straits. If the Count escape us
heard their ribald laugh as they clutched the moving bag
it be. Forgivemethat Imakeyousomuchpain, but it is
necessary. My friend, is it not a dire need for the which
intothatplacetostay,it is Iwhohave togotokeep them
Later. Oh, it did me good to see the way that these
mademe think of the wonderful power of money! What
hasplentyofmoney, arewilling tospenditso freely. For
iftheydidnot, our littleexpedition could not start, either
have half a dozen good horses, well appointed. We have
11:40train to-night for Veresti, where we are to get a
carriage to drive to the Borgo Pass. We are bringing a
horses.Weshalldriveourselves, forwehavenoonewhom

right. We have allgot arms, even for me a large-bore re-
Helsing comforts mebytelling me that I am fully armed
astheremaybe wolves; theweatherisgettingcolderevery
warnings.
Later. It took all my courage to saygood-bye to my
darling. We may never meet again. Courage, Mina! the
Professor is looking atyoukeenly; his look is awarning.
There must be no tears now-unless it may be that God
willletthem fall ingladness.
October 30. Night. I am writingthis inthe light from
the furnacedoor of the steamlaunch: LordGodalming is
would be the one. We took it, that somewhere about the
47thdegree, north latitude, wouldbetheplace chosen for
arewideenoughaparttomakesteaming, even inthedark,
easyenough. LordGodalmingtells metosleepforawhile,
as it is enough forthepresent forone to be on watch. But

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 395
Dr. Sewardwereoffontheirlong ridebefore we started;
four in all, so as not to excite curiosity. When they dis-
missthemen, whichshallbe shortly, they shall themselves
look after the horses.Itmaybenecessary forus to join
Mina, if required.
It isawildadventure weare on. Here, as we are rush-
ing along through the darkness, with the cold from the
riousvoicesofthenightaroundus, itallcomes home. We
Godalming isshuttingthe furnacedoor....
31 October. Still hurrying along. The day has come,
is bitterly cold; the furnace heat is grateful, though we
haveheavy fur coats. Asyet wehavepassed only a few
menwere scared everytime we turned our electric lamp
1November, evening.-No newsallday; wehave found
nothingof thekind we seek. Wehavenowpassed into the
Early this morning, one crew took us for a Government
smoothing matters, so at Fundu, where the Bistritza runs
fly conspicuously. With every boat which we have over-
hauled since then this trick has succeeded; we have had
whatever we chose to ask ordo. Some of the Slovaks tell

speedas shehadadouble crewonboard. This was before
theycameto Fundu, sotheycouldnottellus whetherthe
boat turned into the Bistritza or continued on up the
boat, so she must have passed there in the night. I am
feeling very sleepy; the cold is perhaps beginning to tell
insists thatheshallkeepthe firstwatch.Godblesshim for
2 November, morning. Itisbroaddaylight. That good
fellow would notwakeme. He says itwould havebeen a
ble. It seems brutally selfish tome to have slept so long,
got to Veresti about noon on Wednesday. It would take
to think what may happen. If we could only go faster!
gettingon. Thereseemtobeendless streams runningdown
the mountains into this river, but as none of them are
very large at present, at allevents, though they are ter-
horsemenmaynot have met muchobstruction. I hope that
before weget to Strasba we may see them; for ifby that
timewehavenotovertakenthe Count,itmaybe necessary
totake counsel together what to do next.
Dr. Seward's Diary.
time to write it if there had been, for every moment is

DR . SEWARD'S DIARY 397
precious. We have had only the rest needful for the
horses; but we are both bearing it wonderfully. Those
adventurous days of ours areturningupuseful. We must
pushon; we shallnever feel happytillweget the launch
insightagain.
3 November. We heard at Fundu thatthe launch had
goneup theBistritza. I wish it wasn't so cold. There are
fashion.
4 November.-To-day we heard of the launch having
upthe rapids. The Slovakboatsget upallright, by aid of
Finally, they got up the rapids all right, with local help,
shegot uponsmooth water again, shekept stopping every
Mina Harker's Journal.
31 October. Arrived at Verestiatnoon. The Professor
tells me that this morning at dawnhe could hardly hyp-
says that he will later ontry to buy additional horses, so
ent conditions, how delightfulitwouldbe to see it all. If

cold.
We shall soon be off. I am afraid to think what may.
always for him.

CHAPTER XXVII
MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL
good speed. The horses seem to know thattheyare being
kindlytreated, for theygo willinglytheir fullstage atbest
laconic; hetellsthe farmersthatheis hurryingtoBistritz,
nicequalities. Theyarevery, verysuperstitious. Inthe first
outtwo fingers towards me, tokeep off the evil eye. I be-
so have escaped their suspicions. We are travelling fast,
will follow hard behind us all the way. The Professor
hemademesleep for along spell.At sunset time he hyp-
somehow I have now no fear for him, or for myself. I
write this whilst we wait in a farmhouse for the horses

as firmlyas aconqueror's; eveninhis sleep he is instinct
with resolution. When we have well started I must make
him rest whilstIdrive. I shalltellhimthat we have days
his strength will be needed All is ready; we are off
shortly.
turnsdrivingallnight;nowthedayisonus,brightthough
2 November, night. Allday longdriving. Thecountry
effort each to cheer the other; in the doing so we cheer
reach theBorgoPass.Thehousesarevery fewhere now,
whatwill to-morrowbringto us? Wego to seektheplace
insuch deadly peril. As for me, I am not worthy in His

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 401
ofthosewhohave not incurred His wrath.
ward, M. D., of Purfleet, London, incase I may not see
which all the night I have kept alive-Madam Mina aid-
ing me. It is cold, cold; so cold that the grey heavy sky
isfullofsnow, whichwhenitfallswillsettleforallwinter
as the ground ishardeningto receive it. It seems to have
affected Madam Mina; she has been so heavy ofheadall
nothing all the day; she evenhave lost her appetite. She
makenoentryintoherlittlediary, she whowrite so faith-
fulat everypause. Somethingwhispertomethatallis not
well. However, to-night she is more vif. Her long sleep
ersoever it may lead!
Nowto thehistorical, for as Madam Minawritenot in
herstenography, Imust, inmycumbrousold fashion, that
so eachday of us may not go unrecorded.
Wegotto theBorgo Passjust after sunriseyesterday
morning. When I saw the signs of thedawn I got ready

"This is the way."
"How knowyou it?" I ask.
travel?"
verydifferent fromthe coach road from the Bukovina to
So we camedownthis road; when we meet other ways
-not always were we sure that they were roads at all,
all the time; till at the last, I feel myself to suspicious
may notwake her though I try. I do not wishto try too
hard lest I harm her; for i know that she have suffer
drowse myself, for allof sudden I feelguilt, as though I
havedonesomething; I findmyselfboltup, withthe reins
ofthesunflowinbigyellowflood, sothat wethrow great
long shadow on where the mountain rise so steep. For
as though it were the end of the world.
Then I arouse Madam Mina. This time she wake with
sleep. But shesleepnot,beingasthough Iwere not. Still
thatnightatCarfaxwhenwefirstentertheCount'shouse.

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 403
tetheredin shelter,to feed. Thenwhen Ireturntothe fire
shehave mysupperready. Igotohelp her;but she smile,
remember that I watch, I findher lyingquiet, but awake,
When IwakeItrytohypnotiseher; but alas! though she
shut her eyes obedient, she may not sleep. The sun rise
butsoheavythatshewillnotwake.Ihavetolift herup,
afraid! I am afraid of all things even to think but I
5 November, morning.-Let me be accurate in every-
nerves has atthe lastturnmybrain.
Allyesterdaywetravel, evergettingclosertothemoun-
theplacewasuponher,tainted as she is with thatVam-
pirebaptism. "Well," said I to myself,"if it be that she

sleep all the day, it shall also be that Ido not sleep at
top of a steep-rising hill, on summit of which was such
butalas! unavailing tilltoo late. Then, erethe great dark
cameuponus for even after down-sun the heavens re-
ever, sit comfortable amid her rugs. I got ready food:
but she would not eat, simply saying that she had not
hunger. Idid not press her,knowing her unavailingness.
But Imyselfeat, for Imustneedsnowbe strong forall.
Then, withthe fearonmeofwhat mightbe,Idrewaring
so big for her comfort, round where Madam Mina sat;
itfinesothatallwas wellguarded. Shesatstillallthetime
that the poor soul shook her from head to feet with a
tremorthatwaspainto feel. Isaidtoherpresently,when
shehadgrown more quiet:-
"Willyou not come over to the fire?" for I wished to
make a test of what she could. She rose obedient, but
stricken.
comingback, satdown inher place. Then, looking at me
with open eyes, as of one waked from sleep, she said
simply:-

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 405
that what she could not, none of those that we dreaded
soul was safe!
times through the nightdid I come to them, till it arrive
timemycomingwaswith quiet ofthem. Inthe coldhour
with itachillmist. Even inthedarkthere was a light of
shapeasofwomenwithtrailinggarments.Allwas indead,
fears; butthencameto me the senseofsafety inthat ring
shadowy glimpse of those womenthat would havekissed
fright was not to them, so thattheycould break away. I
fearedformydearMadamMinawhentheseweirdfigures
whispered, like a voice that one hears in adream, so low
itwas:-
"No! No! Do not go without. Here you are safe!" I
"But you? It is for you that I fear!" whereat she
"Fear for me! Why fear for me? None safer in all the

alas! I knew. Did I not, I would soonhavelearned, for
tomaterialisetill if Godhave not take away my reason,
for I saw it through my eyes there were before me in
theroom, whentheywouldhavekissedhisthroat. Iknew
the swaying round forms, the bright hard eyes, the white
teeth, the ruddy colour, the voluptuous lips. They smiled
through the silence of the night, they twined their arms
ness of the water-glasses:-
"Come, sister. Come to us. Come! Come!" In fear I
ness leapt like flame; for oh! theterror in her sweet eyes,
the repulsion, thehorror,toldastorytomyheart that was
knewthat weweresafewithinourprotections. Theycould
not approach me, whilst so armed, nor Madam Mina
whilst she remained within the ring, which she could not
the poor beasts no more of terror.
toclimbthehorizonlife wasto meagain. Atthe firstcom-
ing of thedawnthehorrid figures melted inthewhirling

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 407
Instinctively, withthedawncoming,IturnedtoMadam
Mina, intending to hypnotise her; but she lay in adeep
tried tohypnotise through her sleep, but she made no re-
ingtillthesunisuphigh; for theremaybe placeswhere
obscure it, willbetomeasafety.
...
4November, evening. The accident to the launch has
beena terrible thing for us. Only for it we should have
would have been free. I fear to think ofher, off on the
we follow on the track. I note this whilst Godalming is
were with us. We must only hope! If I write no more
Dr. Seward's Diary.
5 November. With the dawn we saw the body of
howling of wolves; the snow brings themdown fromthe

off. We ridetodeathofsome one.Godaloneknows who,
or where, or what, or when, orhow it maybe.
...
forthatmercyatallevents, thoughtheproving ithas been
dreadful. When I left Madam Mina sleeping within the
Holy circle, I took my way to the castle. The blacksmith
hammer which I took in the carriage from Veresti was
useful; though the doors were all open I broke them off
close them, so that being entered I might not get out.
of his diary I found my way to the old chapel, for I
knew that here my work lay. The air was oppressive; it
seemedas if there was some sulphurous fume, which at
times made me dizzy. Either there was a roaring in my
ears or I heard afar off the howl of wolves. Then I be-
plight. Thedilemmahad mebetween his horns.
Her, Ihadnotdaretotakeintothisplace,butleftsafe
would be the wolf! I resolve me that my work lay here,
So did I choose for her. Had it but been for myself the
choicehadbeen easy,themaw of the wolf werebetter to
choicetogo on with my work.
Iknew that there were at least three graves to find-
one ofthem. Shelayinher Vampire sleep, so full of life
cometodomurder.Ah, Idoubtnotthatinoldtime,when

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 409
main one more victim in the Vampire fold; one more to
There is some fascination, surely, when I am movedby
ries, though therebe thathorrid odour suchasthe lairs of
moved to ayearning fordelaywhich seemed to paralyse
of the air werebeginning toovercome me. Certain it was
that I was lapsing into sleep, the open-eyed sleep of one
whoyields toasweet fascination, whentherecamethrough
pitythatitwoke me likethe soundofaclarion. For it was
the voice of my dear Madam Mina that I heard.
foundbywrenchingawaytomb-tops one other of the sis-
ters, the otherdark one. I dared notpauseto lookon her
as Ihad on her sister, lestoncemore Ishouldbegintobe
enthrall; but I go on searching until,presently, I find in a
highgreattombasifmadetoonemuchbeloved that other
self out ofthe atoms of the mist. She was so fair to look
before the spellcouldbewrought furtherupon me, I had
nerved myself to my wild work. By this time I had
searchedallthetombsinthechapel, so farasIcouldtell;
toms around us inthe night, I took it that there were no
more of active Un-Dead existent. There was one great

proportioned. Onitwasbutoneword
ThisthenwastheUn-DeadhomeoftheKing-Vampire,
store thesewomentotheirdead selvesthrough my awful
beenbutone, ithadbeeneasy, comparative. But three! To
begintwicemoreafter Ihadbeenthroughadeed of hor-
ror; for if it was terrible with the sweet Miss Lucy, what
passing of the years; who would, if they could, have
fought for their foul lives.
Oh,my friendJohn,butitwas butcher work; had Inot
over whom hung such a pall of fear, I could not have
over it just ere the final dissolution came, as realisation
thatthesoulhadbeenwon, Icouldnothavegone further
withmy butchery. I could not have endured the horrid
screechingasthe stakedrovehome;theplungingofwrith-
themplacideachinher fullsleepofdeath forashortmo-
ment ere fading. For, friend John, hardly had my knife
death that should have come centuries agone had at last

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 411
When I stepped into the circle where Madam Mina
inpainthat Ihadenduredtoomuch.
"Come!" she said,"come away from this awful place!
the fresh horror ofthat ruddyvampire sleep.
Minatellmethat she knowarecomingtomeetus.
Mina Harker'sJournal.
6 November. It was late in the afternoon when the
waywas steeply downhill, for we hadto take heavy rugs
totakesomeof ourprovisions, too, for we were in a per-
snowfall, therewasnoteventhesign ofhabitation. When
wehadgoneaboutamile, Iwastiredwiththeheavywalk-
were sodeep under the hill whereon it was set that the
ofwolves. Theywere far off, but thesound, eventhough
comingmuffledthrough thedeadening snowfall, was full
searching about thathe was trying to seek some strategic
point, where we would be less exposed in case of attack.
/

Therough roadway stillleddownwards; wecouldtrace it
through the drifted snow.
دو
Ina little while the Professor signalled to me, so I got
drewme in: "See!" he said, "hereyou willbe inshelter;
could not eat; to even try to do so was repulsive to me,
bring myself to the attempt. He looked very sad, but did
not reproach me. Taking his field-glasses from the case,
horizon. Suddenly he called out:-
swirled about fiercely, for a high wind was beginning to
blow. However, there were times whenthere were pauses
round. From the height where we were it waspossible to
of snow, I could see theriver lying like ablack ribbon in
not noticed before-came a group of mounted men hur-
ryingalong. Inthe midstofthemwas acart, a long leiter-
wagon which swept from side to side, like a dog's tail
wagging, with each stern inequality of the road. Outlined
against the snow as they were, Icouldsee fromthemen's
Onthecartwasagreatsquarechest.Myheart leapedas
Isaw it, for I feltthat the end was coming. The evening
Thing, which was all then imprisoned there, would take
pursuit. In fear I turned to the Professor; to my con-

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 413
sawhimbelowme.Round the rockhehaddrawn a circle,
such as we had found shelter inlast night. Whenhehad
completed it he stood beside me again, saying:-
"Atleastyoushallbe safehere from him!" Hetookthe
whole spacebelowus. "See," he said, "they come quickly;
"They are racing for the sunset. We may be too late.
ontheplain. Thencameasuddencry:-
"Look! Look! Look! See, two horsemen follow fast,
Take the glass. Look before the snow blots it all out!" I
Mr. Morris. I knewatall events that neither of them was
faroff; lookingaround I sawonthenorthsideofthe com-
ingpartytwo other men, riding at break-neck speed. One
course, to be Lord Godalming. They, too, were pursuing
the party with the cart. When I told the Professor he
tillasnow fallmadesight impossible, he laidhis Winches-
terriflereadyforuseagainsttheboulderattheopening of
our shelter. "They are all converging," he said. "When
the time comes we shall have gypsies on all sides." I got
thesnow stormabated amoment welooked again. It was
thewolvesweregathering fortheirprey.

fury as it swept upon us in circling eddies, at times we
thehollow-soundingwind sweptbyus, itseemed to clear
theair-spacearound ussothatwecouldseeafar. Wehad
set, that we knew with fair accuracy when it would be;
hourthatwewaitedinthatrocky shelterbeforethevarious
ily from the north. It seemingly had driven the snow
clouds from us, for, with only occasionalbursts, the snow
fell. We coulddistinguish clearly the individuals of each
thosepursueddid notseemto realise, or atleast to care,
that they were pursued;they seemed,however, to hasten
onthemountaintops.
ready; Icould seethathe wasdeterminedthattheyshould
Allatoncetwo voicesshoutedoutto: "Halt!" One was
nomistakingthetone, in whatevertonguethe wordswere
the gypsies, a splendid-looking fellow who sat his horse
atthem. Seeingthattheywere surroundedthementight-

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 415
The leader, with aquick movement of his rein, threw
fourmenofourpartythrewthemselves fromtheir horses
of battle must have been upon me as well as the rest of
them; I felt no fear, butonly a wild, surgingdesire todo
something. Seeing the quickmovement of ourparties, the
formedroundthecartinasortofundisciplinedendeavour,
nesstocarryouttheorder.
forcing a way to the cart; it was evident that they were
bent on finishing their task before the sun should set.
Nothing seemed to stop or even to hinder them. Neither
thelevelledweapons northe flashingknives of the gypsies
infront,northehowlingofthewolvesbehind, appearedto
awethosein frontofhim;instinctivelytheycoweredaside
had seentheknives of the gypsies flash as he won away

thatthebloodwasspurtingthroughhisfingers.Hedidnot
energy, attacked one end of thechest, attempting to prize
offthelidwithhisgreatKukriknife, heattackedtheother
Bythis timethe gypsies, seeing themselves covered by
shadowsofthewholegroupfelluponthesnow. I saw the
Count lyingwithintheboxupontheearth, some of which
the rude falling fromthecarthadscattered over him. He
glaredwith the horrible vindictive lookwhich Iknewtoo_
well.
ofhateinthemturnedtotriumph.
thethroat; whilstatthe samemoment Mr. Morris'sbowie
knifeplunged intotheheart.
most inthedrawing ofabreath,thewholebodycrumbled
I shall be glad as long as I live that even in that mo-
ment of finaldissolution,therewas inthe face alook of
peace, such as I never could have imagined might have
restedthere.
latedagainstthelightofthe setting sun.
Thegypsies, takingus as insomewaythecauseofthe
shouted to thehorsemen not to desertthem. The wolves,

MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL 417
wake, leaving us alone. Mr. Morris, who had sunk to the
his side; the blood still gushedthrough his fingers. I flew
tohim, for the Holycircledid notnowkeep me back; so
God!" hecriedsuddenly, strugglinguptoasittingposture
look!"
The sun was now right down upon the mountain top,
their eyes followed the pointing ofhis finger. The dying
cursehaspassedaway!"

$18
NOTE
happinessof someofussincethenis,wethink, well worth
that our boy's birthday is the same dayas that on which
QuinceyMorrisdied. Hismotherholds, I know, thesecret
beliefthatsomeofourbrave friend's spirithaspassed into
together;butwecallhimQuincey.
impossible to believe that the things which we had seen
truths. Every trace of allthat had been was blotted out.
The castle stood as before, reared high above a waste of
desolation.
When we got home we were talking of the old time-
whichwecouldalllookbackonwithoutdespair,forGodal-
papers from the safe where they had been ever since our
return so long ago. We were struck with the fact, that in
allthemassof materialof which the record is composed,
thereishardlyoneauthenticdocument; nothingbut amass
allupashesaid, withourboyonhisknee:-
her, that they did dare much for her sake."
THE END
1 265 OSU3 141 6848
85 1 BR

ALL
OCT281993
=
FEB 05 1994
-

TheOhioStateUniversity
3 2435 00645 6016
PR6037T617D71897 002