We Had The Corner Of A Pullman Car To Ourselves Th...  We Had The Corner Of A Pullman Car To
Ourselves Th...  We had the corner of a Pullman car to ourselves that evening as we whirled back to
London, and I fancy that the journey was a short one to Colonel Ross as well as to myself, as we
listened to our companion's narrative of the events which had occurred at the Dartmoor training-
stables upon the Monday night, and the means by which he had unravelled them.  "I confess," said he,
"that any theories which I had formed from the newspaper reports were entirely erroneous.  And yet
there were indications there, had they not been overlaid by other details which concealed their true
import.  I went to Devonshire with the conviction that Fitzroy Simpson was the true culprit,
although, of course, I saw that the evidence against him was by no means complete.  It was while I
was in the carriage, just as we reached the trainer's house, that the immense significance of the
curried mutton occurred to me.  You may remember that I was distrait, and remained sitting after you
had all alighted.  I was marvelling in my own mind how I could possibly have overlooked so obvious a
clue."  "I confess," said the Colonel, "that even now I cannot see how it helps us."  "It was the
first link in my chain of reasoning.  Powdered opium is by no means tasteless.  The flavor is not
disagreeable, but it is perceptible.  Were it mixed with any ordinary dish the eater would
undoubtedly detect it, and would probably eat no more.  A curry was exactly the medium which would
disguise this taste.  By no possible supposition could this stranger, Fitzroy Simpson, have caused
curry to be served in the trainer's family that night, and it is surely too monstrous a coincidence
to suppose that he happened to come along with powdered opium upon the very night when a dish
happened to be served which would disguise the flavor.  That is unthinkable.  Therefore Simpson
becomes eliminated from the case, and our attention centers upon Straker and his wife, the only two
people who could have chosen curried mutton for supper that night.  The opium was added after the
dish was set aside for the stable-boy, for the others had the same for supper with no ill effects.
Which of them, then, had access to that dish without the maid seeing them?  "Before deciding that
question I had grasped the significance of the silence of the dog, for one true inference invariably
suggests others.  The Simpson incident had shown me that a dog was kept in the stables, and yet,
though some one had been in and had fetched out a horse, he had not barked enough to arouse the two
lads in the loft.  Obviously the midnight visitor was some one whom the dog knew well.  "I was
already convinced, or almost convinced, that John Straker went down to the stables in the dead of
the night and took out Silver Blaze.  For what purpose?  For a dishonest one, obviously, or why
should he drug his own stable-boy?  And yet I was at a loss to know why.  There have been cases
before now where trainers have made sure of great sums of money by laying against their own horses,
through agents, and then preventing them from winning by fraud.  Sometimes it is a pulling jockey.
Sometimes it is some surer and subtler means.  What was it here?  I hoped that the contents of his
pockets might help me to form a conclusion.  "And they did so.  You cannot have forgotten the
singular knife which was found in the dead man's hand, a knife which certainly no sane man would
choose for a weapon.  It was, as Dr.  Watson told us, a form of knife which is used for the most
delicate operations known in surgery.  And it was to be used for a delicate operation that night.
You must know, with your wide experience of turf matters, Colonel Ross, that it is possible to make
a slight nick upon the tendons of a horse's ham, and to do it subcutaneously, so as to leave
absolutely no trace.  A horse so treated would develop a slight lameness, which would be put down to
a strain in exercise or a touch of rheumatism, but never to foul play."  "Villain!  Scoundrel!"
cried the Colonel.  "We have here the explanation of why John Straker wished to take the horse out
on to the moor.  So spirited a creature would have certainly roused the soundest of sleepers when it
felt the prick of the knife.  It was absolutely necessary to do it in the open air."  "I have been
blind!" cried the Colonel.  "Of course that was why he needed the candle, and struck the match."
"Undoubtedly.  But in examining his belongings I was fortunate enough to discover not only the
method of the crime, but even its motives.  As a man of the world, Colonel, you know that men do not
carry other people's bills about in their pockets.  We have most of us quite enough to do to settle
our own.  I at once concluded that Straker was leading a double life, and keeping a second
establishment.  The nature of the bill showed that there was a lady in the case, and one who had
expensive tastes.  Liberal as you are with your servants, one can hardly expect that they can buy
twenty-guinea walking dresses for their ladies.  I questioned Mrs.  Straker as to the dress without
her knowing it, and having satisfied myself that it had never reached her, I made a note of the
milliner's address, and felt that by calling there with Straker's photograph I could easily dispose
of the mythical Derbyshire.  "From that time on all was plain.  Straker had led out the horse to a
hollow where his light would be invisible.  Simpson in his flight had dropped his cravat, and
Straker had picked it up--with some idea, perhaps, that he might use it in securing the horse's leg.
Once in the hollow, he had got behind the horse and had struck a light; but the creature frightened
at the sudden glare, and with the strange instinct of animals feeling that some mischief was
intended, had lashed out, and the steel shoe had struck Straker full on the forehead.  He had
already, in spite of the rain, taken off his overcoat in order to do his delicate task, and so, as
he fell, his knife gashed his thigh.  Do I make it clear?"  "Wonderful!" cried the Colonel.
"Wonderful!  You might have been there!"  "My final shot was, I confess a very long one.  It struck
me that so astute a man as Straker would not undertake this delicate tendon-nicking without a little
practice.  What could he practice on?  My eyes fell upon the sheep, and I asked a question which,
rather to my surprise, showed that my surmise was correct.  "When I returned to London I called upon
the milliner, who had recognized Straker as an excellent customer of the name of Derbyshire, who had
a very dashing wife, with a strong partiality for expensive dresses.  I have no doubt that this
woman had plunged him over head and ears in debt, and so led him into this miserable plot."  "You
have explained all but one thing," cried the Colonel.  "Where was the horse?"  "Ah, it bolted, and
was cared for by one of your neighbors.  We must have an amnesty in that direction, I think.  This
is Clapham Junction, if I am not mistaken, and we shall be in Victoria in less than ten minutes.  If
you care to smoke a cigar in our rooms, Colonel, I shall be happy to give you any other details
which might interest you."