SECTION: TheScience of Deduction

CHAPTER I.
TheScience of Deduction
Sherlock Holmes took his bottle from the
corner of the mantelpiece and his hypo-
dermic syringe from its neat morocco case.
With his long, white, nervous ﬁngers he
adjusted the delicate needle, and rolled back his
left shirt-cuff. For some little time his eyes rested
thoughtfully upon the sinewy forearm and wrist
all dotted and scarred with innumerable puncture-
marks. Finally he thrust the sharp point home,
pressed down the tiny piston, and sank back into the
velvet-lined arm-chair with a long sigh of satisfac-
tion.
Three times a day for many months I had wit-
nessed this performance, but custom had not recon-
ciled my mind to it. On the contrary, from day to
day I had become more irritable at the sight, and my
conscience swelled nightly within me at the thought
that I had lacked the courage to protest. Again and
again I had registered a vow that I should deliver
my soul upon the subject, but there was that in the
cool, nonchalant air of my companion which made
him the last man with whom one would care to take
anything approaching to a liberty. His great powers,
his masterly manner, and the experience which I had
had of his many extraordinary qualities, all made me
difﬁdent and backward in crossing him.
Yet upon that afternoon, whether it was the
Beaune which I had taken with my lunch, or the ad-
ditional exasperation produced by the extreme de-
liberation of his manner, I suddenly felt that I could
hold out no longer.
“Which is it to-day?” I asked,—“morphine or co-
caine?”
He raised his eyes languidly from the old black-
letter volume which he had opened. “It is cocaine,”
he said,—“a seven-per-cent solution. Would you care
to try it?”
“No, indeed,” I answered, brusquely. “My consti-
tution has not got over the Afghan campaign yet. I
cannot afford to throw any extra strain upon it.”
He smiled at my vehemence. “Perhaps you are
right, Watson,” he said. “I suppose that its inﬂu-
ence is physically a bad one. I ﬁnd it, however,
so transcendently stimulating and clarifying to the
mind that its secondary action is a matter of small
moment.”
“But consider!” I said, earnestly. “Count the cost!
Your brain may, as you say, be roused and excited,but it is a pathological and morbid process, which in-
volves increased tissue-change and may at last leave
a permanent weakness. You know, too, what a black
reaction comes upon you. Surely the game is hardly
worth the candle. Why should you, for a mere pass-
ing pleasure, risk the loss of those great powers with
which you have been endowed? Remember that I
speak not only as one comrade to another, but as a
medical man to one for whose constitution he is to
some extent answerable.”
He did not seem offended. On the contrary, he
put his ﬁngertips together and leaned his elbows on
the arms of his chair, like one who has a relish for
conversation.
“My mind,” he said, “rebels at stagnation. Give
me problems, give me work, give me the most ab-
struse cryptogram or the most intricate analysis, and
I am in my own proper atmosphere. I can dispense
then with artiﬁcial stimulants. But I abhor the dull
routine of existence. I crave for mental exaltation.
That is why I have chosen my own particular profes-
sion,—or rather created it, for I am the only one in
the world.”
“The only unofﬁcial detective?” I said, raising my
eyebrows.
“The only unofﬁcial consulting detective,” he an-
swered. “I am the last and highest court of appeal
in detection. When Gregson or Lestrade or Athelney
Jones are out of their depths—which, by the way, is
their normal state—the matter is laid before me. I
examine the data, as an expert, and pronounce a spe-
cialist’s opinion. I claim no credit in such cases. My
name ﬁgures in no newspaper. The work itself, the
pleasure of ﬁnding a ﬁeld for my peculiar powers, is
my highest reward. But you have yourself had some
experience of my methods of work in the Jefferson
Hope case.”
“Yes, indeed,” said I, cordially. “I was never so
struck by anything in my life. I even embodied it in
a small brochure with the somewhat fantastic title of
‘A Study in Scarlet.’ ”
He shook his head sadly. “I glanced over it,” said
he. “Honestly, I cannot congratulate you upon it.
Detection is, or ought to be, an exact science, and
should be treated in the same cold and unemotional
manner. You have attempted to tinge it with romanti-
cism, which produces much the same effect as if you
worked a love-story or an elopement into the ﬁfth
proposition of Euclid.”

TheSign of the Four
“But the romance was there,” I remonstrated. “I
could not tamper with the facts.”
“Some facts should be suppressed, or at least a
just sense of proportion should be observed in treat-
ing them. The only point in the case which deserved
mention was the curious analytical reasoning from
effects to causes by which I succeeded in unraveling
it.”
I was annoyed at this criticism of a work which
had been specially designed to please him. I confess,
too, that I was irritated by the egotism which seemed
to demand that every line of my pamphlet should be
devoted to his own special doings. More than once
during the years that I had lived with him in Baker
Street I had observed that a small vanity underlay my
companion’s quiet and didactic manner. I made no
remark, however, but sat nursing my wounded leg. I
had a Jezail bullet through it some time before, and,
though it did not prevent me from walking, it ached
wearily at every change of the weather.
“My practice has extended recently to the Conti-
nent,” said Holmes, after a while, ﬁlling up his old
brier-root pipe. “I was consulted last week by Fran-
cois Le Villard, who, as you probably know, has come
rather to the front lately in the French detective ser-
vice. He has all the Celtic power of quick intuition,
but he is deﬁcient in the wide range of exact knowl-
edge which is essential to the higher developments of
his art. The case was concerned with a will, and pos-
sessed some features of interest. I was able to refer
him to two parallel cases, the one at Riga in 1857 , and
the other at St. Louis in 1871 , which have suggested
to him the true solution. Here is the letter which I
had this morning acknowledging my assistance.” He
tossed over, as he spoke, a crumpled sheet of foreign
notepaper. I glanced my eyes down it, catching a pro-
fusion of notes of admiration, with stray magniﬁques,
coup-de-ma ˆıtres and tours-de-force, all testifying to the
ardent admiration of the Frenchman.
“He speaks as a pupil to his master,” said I.
“Oh, he rates my assistance too highly,” said Sher-
lock Holmes, lightly. “He has considerable gifts him-
self. He possesses two out of the three qualities nec-
essary for the ideal detective. He has the power of
observation and that of deduction. He is only want-
ing in knowledge; and that may come in time. He is
now translating my small works into French.”
“Your works?”
“Oh, didn’t you know?” he cried, laughing. “Yes,
I have been guilty of several monographs. They are
all upon technical subjects. Here, for example, is one‘Upon the Distinction between the Ashes of the Various
Tobaccoes.’ In it I enumerate a hundred and forty
forms of cigar-, cigarette-, and pipe-tobacco, with col-
ored plates illustrating the difference in the ash. It is
a point which is continually turning up in criminal
trials, and which is sometimes of supreme impor-
tance as a clue. If you can say deﬁnitely, for example,
that some murder has been done by a man who was
smoking an Indian lunkah , it obviously narrows your
ﬁeld of search. To the trained eye there is as much
difference between the black ash of a Trichinopoly
and the white ﬂuff of bird’s-eye as there is between a
cabbage and a potato.”
“You have an extraordinary genius for minutiae,”
I remarked.
“I appreciate their importance. Here is my mono-
graph upon the tracing of footsteps, with some re-
marks upon the uses of plaster of Paris as a pre-
server of impresses. Here, too, is a curious little work
upon the inﬂuence of a trade upon the form of the
hand, with lithotypes of the hands of slaters, sailors,
corkcutters, compositors, weavers, and diamond-
polishers. That is a matter of great practical interest
to the scientiﬁc detective,—especially in cases of un-
claimed bodies, or in discovering the antecedents of
criminals. But I weary you with my hobby.”
“Not at all,” I answered, earnestly. “It is of the
greatest interest to me, especially since I have had
the opportunity of observing your practical applica-
tion of it. But you spoke just now of observation and
deduction. Surely the one to some extent implies the
other.”
“Why, hardly,” he answered, leaning back luxu-
riously in his armchair, and sending up thick blue
wreaths from his pipe. “For example, observa-
tion shows me that you have been to the Wigmore
Street Post-Ofﬁce this morning, but deduction lets
me know that when there you dispatched a tele-
gram.”
“Right!” said I. “Right on both points! But I con-
fess that I don’t see how you arrived at it. It was a
sudden impulse upon my part, and I have mentioned
it to no one.”
“It is simplicity itself,” he remarked, chuckling at
my surprise,—“so absurdly simple that an explana-
tion is superﬂuous; and yet it may serve to deﬁne the
limits of observation and of deduction. Observation
tells me that you have a little reddish mould adher-
ing to your instep. Just opposite the Seymour Street
Ofﬁce they have taken up the pavement and thrown

TheSign of the Four
up some earth which lies in such a way that it is dif-
ﬁcult to avoid treading in it in entering. The earth is
of this peculiar reddish tint which is found, as far as
I know, nowhere else in the neighborhood. So much
is observation. The rest is deduction.”
“How, then, did you deduce the telegram?”
“Why, of course I knew that you had not written
a letter, since I sat opposite to you all morning. I see
also in your open desk there that you have a sheet of
stamps and a thick bundle of postcards. What could
you go into the post-ofﬁce for, then, but to send a
wire? Eliminate all other factors, and the one which
remains must be the truth.”
“In this case it certainly is so,” I replied, after a
little thought. “The thing, however, is, as you say, of
the simplest. Would you think me impertinent if I
were to put your theories to a more severe test?”
“On the contrary,” he answered, “it would pre-
vent me from taking a second dose of cocaine. I
should be delighted to look into any problem which
you might submit to me.”
“I have heard you say that it is difﬁcult for a man
to have any object in daily use without leaving the
impress of his individuality upon it in such a way
that a trained observer might read it. Now, I have
here a watch which has recently come into my pos-
session. Would you have the kindness to let me have
an opinion upon the character or habits of the late
owner?”
I handed him over the watch with some slight
feeling of amusement in my heart, for the test was,
as I thought, an impossible one, and I intended it as
a lesson against the somewhat dogmatic tone which
he occasionally assumed. He balanced the watch in
his hand, gazed hard at the dial, opened the back,
and examined the works, ﬁrst with his naked eyes
and then with a powerful convex lens. I could hardly
keep from smiling at his crestfallen face when he ﬁ-
nally snapped the case to and handed it back.
“There are hardly any data,” he remarked. “The
watch has been recently cleaned, which robs me of
my most suggestive facts.”
“You are right,” I answered. “It was cleaned be-
fore being sent to me.” In my heart I accused my
companion of putting forward a most lame and im-
potent excuse to cover his failure. What data could
he expect from an uncleaned watch?
“Though unsatisfactory, my research has not been
entirely barren,” he observed, staring up at the ceil-
ing with dreamy, lack-lustre eyes. “Subject to yourcorrection, I should judge that the watch belonged
to your elder brother, who inherited it from your fa-
ther.”
“That you gather, no doubt, from the H. W. upon
the back?”
“Quite so. The W. suggests your own name. The
date of the watch is nearly ﬁfty years back, and the
initials are as old as the watch: so it was made for
the last generation. Jewelry usually descents to the
eldest son, and he is most likely to have the same
name as the father. Your father has, if I remember
right, been dead many years. It has, therefore, been
in the hands of your eldest brother.”
“Right, so far,” said I. “Anything else?”
“He was a man of untidy habits,—very untidy
and careless. He was left with good prospects, but
he threw away his chances, lived for some time in
poverty with occasional short intervals of prosperity,
and ﬁnally, taking to drink, he died. That is all I can
gather.”
I sprang from my chair and limped impatiently
about the room with considerable bitterness in my
heart.
“This is unworthy of you, Holmes,” I said. “I
could not have believed that you would have de-
scended to this. You have made inquires into the
history of my unhappy brother, and you now pre-
tend to deduce this knowledge in some fanciful way.
You cannot expect me to believe that you have read
all this from his old watch! It is unkind, and, to speak
plainly, has a touch of charlatanism in it.”
“My dear doctor,” said he, kindly, “pray accept
my apologies. Viewing the matter as an abstract
problem, I had forgotten how personal and painful
a thing it might be to you. I assure you, however,
that I never even know that you had a brother until
you handed me the watch.”
“Then how in the name of all that is wonderful
did you get these facts? They are absolutely correct
in every particular.”
“Ah, that is good luck. I could only say what was
the balance of probability. I did not at all expect to
be so accurate.“
“But it was not mere guess-work?”
“No, no: I never guess. It is a shocking
habit,—destructive to the logical faculty. What seems
strange to you is only so because you do not fol-
low my train of thought or observe the small facts
upon which large inferences may depend. For exam-
ple, I began by stating that your brother was careless.
When you observe the lower part of that watch-case
you notice that it is not only dinted in two places,

TheSign of the Four
but it is cut and marked all over from the habit of
keeping other hard objects, such as coins or keys, in
the same pocket. Surely it is no great feat to assume
that a man who treats a ﬁfty-guinea watch so cav-
alierly must be a careless man. Neither is it a very
far-fetched inference that a man who inherits one ar-
ticle of such value is pretty well provided for in other
respects.”
I nodded, to show that I followed his reasoning.
“It is very customary for pawnbrokers in Eng-
land, when they take a watch, to scratch the number
of the ticket with a pin-point upon the inside of the
case. It is more handy than a label, as there is no risk
of the number being lost or transposed. There are
no less than four such numbers visible to my lens on
the inside of this case. Inference,—that your brother
was often at low water. Secondary inference,—that
he had occasional bursts of prosperity, or he could
not have redeemed the pledge. Finally, I ask you
to look at the inner plate, which contains the key-
hole. Look at the thousands of scratches all round the
hole,—marks where the key has slipped. What sober
man’s key could have scored those grooves? But you
will never see a drunkard’s watch without them. He
winds it at night, and he leaves these traces of his
unsteady hand. Where is the mystery in all this?”“It is as clear as daylight,” I answered. “I regret
the injustice which I did you. I should have had
more faith in your marvellous faculty. May I ask
whether you have any professional inquiry on foot
at present?”
“None. Hence the cocaine. I cannot live with-
out brain-work. What else is there to live for? Stand
at the window here. Was ever such a dreary, dis-
mal, unproﬁtable world? See how the yellow fog
swirls down the street and drifts across the duncol-
ored houses. What could be more hopelessly prosaic
and material? What is the use of having powers, doc-
tor, when one has no ﬁeld upon which to exert them?
Crime is commonplace, existence is commonplace,
and no qualities save those which are commonplace
have any function upon earth.”
I had opened my mouth to reply to this tirade,
when with a crisp knock our landlady entered, bear-
ing a card upon the brass salver.
“A young lady for you, sir,” she said, addressing
my companion.
“Miss Mary Morstan,” he read. “Hum! I have no
recollection of the name. Ask the young lady to step
up, Mrs. Hudson. Don’t go, doctor. I should prefer
that you remain.”

