CHAPTER III.
InQuest of a Solution
It was half-past ﬁve before Holmes returned. He
was bright, eager, and in excellent spirits,—a mood
which in his case alternated with ﬁts of the blackest
depression.
“There is no great mystery in this matter,” he
said, taking the cup of tea which I had poured out
for him. “The facts appear to admit of only one ex-
planation.”
“What! you have solved it already?”
“Well, that would be too much to say. I have dis-
covered a suggestive fact, that is all. It is, however,
very suggestive. The details are still to be added. I
have just found, on consulting the back ﬁles of the
Times , that Major Sholto, of Upper Norword, late
of the 34th Bombay Infantry, died upon the 28th of
April, 1882 .”
“I may be very obtuse, Holmes, but I fail to see
what this suggests.”
“No? You surprise me. Look at it in this way,
then. Captain Morstan disappears. The only per-
son in London whom he could have visited is Ma-
jor Sholto. Major Sholto denies having heard that he
was in London. Four years later Sholto dies. Within a
week of his death Captain Morstan’s daughter receives
a valuable present, which is repeated from year to
year, and now culminates in a letter which describes
her as a wronged woman. What wrong can it refer
to except this deprivation of her father? And why
should the presents begin immediately after Sholto’s
death, unless it is that Sholto’s heir knows something
of the mystery and desires to make compensation?
Have you any alternative theory which will meet the
facts?”
“But what a strange compensation! And how
strangely made! Why, too, should he write a let-
ter now, rather than six years ago? Again, the let-
ter speaks of giving her justice. What justice can she
have? It is too much to suppose that her father is still
alive. There is no other injustice in her case that you
know of.”
“There are difﬁculties; there are certainly difﬁcul-
ties,” said Sherlock Holmes, pensively. “But our ex-
pedition of to-night will solve them all. Ah, here is
a four-wheeler, and Miss Morstan is inside. Are you
all ready? Then we had better go down, for it is a
little past the hour.”
I picked up my hat and my heaviest stick, but
I observed that Holmes took his revolver from hisdrawer and slipped it into his pocket. It was clear
that he thought that our night’s work might be a se-
rious one.
Miss Morstan was mufﬂed in a dark cloak, and
her sensitive face was composed, but pale. She must
have been more than woman if she did not feel some
uneasiness at the strange enterprise upon which we
were embarking, yet her self-control was perfect, and
she readily answered the few additional questions
which Sherlock Holmes put to her.
“Major Sholto was a very particular friend of
papa’s,” she said. “His letters were full of allusions
to the major. He and papa were in command of the
troops at the Andaman Islands, so they were thrown
a great deal together. By the way, a curious paper
was found in papa’s desk which no one could un-
derstand. I don’t suppose that it is of the slightest
importance, but I thought you might care to see it, so
I brought it with me. It is here.”
Holmes unfolded the paper carefully and
smoothed it out upon his knee. He then very me-
thodically examined it all over with his double lens.
“It is paper of native Indian manufacture,” he re-
marked. “It has at some time been pinned to a board.
The diagram upon it appears to be a plan of part of
a large building with numerous halls, corridors, and
passages. At one point is a small cross done in red
ink, and above it is ‘ 3.37from left,’ in faded pencil-
writing. In the left-hand corner is a curious hiero-
glyphic like four crosses in a line with their arms
touching. Beside it is written, in very rough and
coarse characters, ‘The sign of the four,—Jonathan
Small, Mahomet Singh, Abdullah Khan, Dost Akbar.’
No, I confess that I do not see how this bears upon
the matter. Yet it is evidently a document of impor-
tance. It has been kept carefully in a pocket-book; for
the one side is as clean as the other.”
“It was in his pocket-book that we found it.”
“Preserve it carefully, then, Miss Morstan, for it
may prove to be of use to us. I begin to suspect
that this matter may turn out to be much deeper and
more subtle than I at ﬁrst supposed. I must recon-
sider my ideas.” He leaned back in the cab, and I
could see by his drawn brow and his vacant eye that
he was thinking intently. Miss Morstan and I chatted
in an undertone about our present expedition and its
possible outcome, but our companion maintained his
impenetrable reserve until the end of our journey.

TheSign of the Four
It was a September evening, and not yet seven
o’clock, but the day had been a dreary one, and
a dense drizzly fog lay low upon the great city.
Mud-colored clouds drooped sadly over the muddy
streets. Down the Strand the lamps were but misty
splotches of diffused light which threw a feeble cir-
cular glimmer upon the slimy pavement. The yellow
glare from the shop-windows streamed out into the
steamy, vaporous air, and threw a murky, shifting ra-
diance across the crowded thoroughfare. There was,
to my mind, something eerie and ghost-like in the
endless procession of faces which ﬂitted across these
narrow bars of light,—sad faces and glad, haggard
and merry. Like all human kind, they ﬂitted from
the gloom into the light, and so back into the gloom
once more. I am not subject to impressions, but the
dull, heavy evening, with the strange business upon
which we were engaged, combined to make me ner-
vous and depressed. I could see from Miss Morstan’s
manner that she was suffering from the same feeling.
Holmes alone could rise superior to petty inﬂuences.
He held his open note-book upon his knee, and from
time to time he jotted down ﬁgures and memoranda
in the light of his pocket-lantern.
At the Lyceum Theatre the crowds were already
thick at the side-entrances. In front a continu-
ous stream of hansoms and four-wheelers were rat-
tling up, discharging their cargoes of shirt-fronted
men and beshawled, bediamonded women. We had
hardly reached the third pillar, which was our ren-
dezvous, before a small, dark, brisk man in the dress
of a coachman accosted us.
“Are you the parties who come with Miss
Morstan?” he asked.
“I am Miss Morstan, and these two gentlemen are
my friends,” said she.
He bent a pair of wonderfully penetrating and
questioning eyes upon us. “You will excuse me,
miss,” he said with a certain dogged manner, “but
I was to ask you to give me your word that neither of
your companions is a police-ofﬁcer.”
“I give you my word on that,” she answered.
He gave a shrill whistle, on which a street Arab
led across a four-wheeler and opened the door. The
man who had addressed us mounted to the box,
while we took our places inside. We had hardly done
so before the driver whipped up his horse, and we
plunged away at a furious pace through the foggy
streets.
The situation was a curious one. We were driving
to an unknown place, on an unknown errand. Yetour invitation was either a complete hoax,—which
was an inconceivable hypothesis,—or else we had
good reason to think that important issues might
hang upon our journey. Miss Morstan’s demeanor
was as resolute and collected as ever. I endeavored
to cheer and amuse her by reminiscences of my ad-
ventures in Afghanistan; but, to tell the truth, I was
myself so excited at our situation and so curious as
to our destination that my stories were slightly in-
volved. To this day she declares that I told her one
moving anecdote as to how a musket looked into my
tent at the dead of night, and how I ﬁred a double-
barrelled tiger cub at it. At ﬁrst I had some idea as
to the direction in which we were driving; but soon,
what with our pace, the fog, and my own limited
knowledge of London, I lost my bearings, and knew
nothing, save that we seemed to be going a very long
way. Sherlock Holmes was never at fault, however,
and he muttered the names as the cab rattled through
squares and in and out by tortuous by-streets.
“Rochester Row,” said he. “Now Vincent Square.
Now we come out on the Vauxhall Bridge Road. We
are making for the Surrey side, apparently. Yes, I
thought so. Now we are on the bridge. You can catch
glimpses of the river.”
We did indeed bet a ﬂeeting view of a stretch of
the Thames with the lamps shining upon the broad,
silent water; but our cab dashed on, and was soon
involved in a labyrinth of streets upon the other side.
“Wordsworth Road,” said my companion. “Pri-
ory Road. Lark Hall Lane. Stockwell Place. Robert
Street. Cold Harbor Lane. Our quest does not appear
to take us to very fashionable regions.”
We had, indeed, reached a questionable and for-
bidding neighborhood. Long lines of dull brick
houses were only relieved by the coarse glare and
tawdry brilliancy of public houses at the corner. Then
came rows of two-storied villas each with a fronting
of miniature garden, and then again interminable
lines of new staring brick buildings,—the monster
tentacles which the giant city was throwing out into
the country. At last the cab drew up at the third
house in a new terrace. None of the other houses
were inhabited, and that at which we stopped was
as dark as its neighbors, save for a single glimmer
in the kitchen window. On our knocking, however,
the door was instantly thrown open by a Hindoo
servant clad in a yellow turban, white loose-ﬁtting
clothes, and a yellow sash. There was something
strangely incongruous in this Oriental ﬁgure framed
in the commonplace door-way of a third-rate subur-
ban dwelling-house.

TheSign of the Four
“The Sahib awaits you,” said he, and even as he
spoke there came a high piping voice from some in-ner room. “Show them in to me, khitmutgar ,“ it cried.
”Show them straight in to me.”
CHAPTER IV .
TheStory of the Bald-Headed Man
We followed the Indian down a sordid and com-
mon passage, ill lit and worse furnished, until he
came to a door upon the right, which he threw open.
A blaze of yellow light streamed out upon us, and in
the centre of the glare there stood a small man with
a very high head, a bristle of red hair all round the
fringe of it, and a bald, shining scalp which shot out
from among it like a mountain-peak from ﬁr-trees.
He writhed his hands together as he stood, and his
features were in a perpetual jerk, now smiling, now
scowling, but never for an instant in repose. Nature
had given him a pendulous lip, and a too visible line
of yellow and irregular teeth, which he strove feebly
to conceal by constantly passing his hand over the
lower part of his face. In spite of his obtrusive bald-
ness, he gave the impression of youth. In point of
fact he had just turned his thirtieth year.
“Your servant, Miss Morstan,” he kept repeating,
in a thin, high voice. “Your servant, gentlemen. Pray
step into my little sanctum. A small place, miss, but
furnished to my own liking. An oasis of art in the
howling desert of South London.”
We were all astonished by the appearance o the
apartment into which he invited us. In that sorry
house it looked as out of place as a diamond of the
ﬁrst water in a setting of brass. The richest and
glossiest of curtains and tapestries draped the walls,
looped back here and there to expose some richly-
mounted painting or Oriental vase. The carpet was
of amber-and-black, so soft and so thick that the
foot sank pleasantly into it, as into a bed of moss.
Two great tiger-skins thrown athwart it increased the
suggestion of Eastern luxury, as did a huge hookah
which stood upon a mat in the corner. A lamp in
the fashion of a silver dove was hung from an almost
invisible golden wire in the centre of the room. As
it burned it ﬁlled the air with a subtle and aromatic
odor.“Mr. Thaddeus Sholto,” said the little man, still
jerking and smiling. “That is my name. You are Miss
Morstan, of course. And these gentlemen—”
“This is Mr. Sherlock Holmes, and this is Dr. Wat-
son.”
“A doctor, eh?” cried he, much excited. “Have
you your stethoscope? Might I ask you—would you
have the kindness? I have grave doubts as to my mi-
tral valve, if you would be so very good. The aortic I
may rely upon, but I should value your opinion upon
the mitral.”
I listened to his heart, as requested, but was un-
able to ﬁnd anything amiss, save indeed that he was
in an ecstasy of fear, for he shivered from head to
foot. “It appears to be normal,” I said. “You have no
cause for uneasiness.”
“You will excuse my anxiety, Miss Morstan,” he
remarked, airily. “I am a great sufferer, and I have
long had suspicions as to that valve. I am delighted
to hear that they are unwarranted. Had your father,
Miss Morstan, refrained from throwing a strain upon
his heart, he might have been alive now.”
I could have struck the man across the face, so hot
was I at this callous and off-hand reference to so del-
icate a matter. Miss Morstan sat down, and her face
grew white to the lips. “I knew in my heart that he
was dead,” said she.
“I can give you every information,” said he, “and,
what is more, I can do you justice; and I will, too,
whatever Brother Bartholomew may say. I am so
glad to have your friends here, not only as an es-
cort to you, but also as witnesses to what I am
about to do and say. The three of us can show a
bold front to Brother Bartholomew. But let us have
no outsiders,—no police or ofﬁcials. We can set-
tle everything satisfactorily among ourselves, with-
out any interference. Nothing would annoy Brother
Bartholomew more than any publicity.” He sat down

TheSign of the Four
upon a low settee and blinked at us inquiringly with
his weak, watery blue eyes.
“For my part,” said Holmes, “whatever you may
choose to say will go no further.”
I nodded to show my agreement.
“That is well! That is well!” said he. “May I offer
you a glass of Chianti, Miss Morstan? Or of Tokay? I
keep no other wines. Shall I open a ﬂask? No? Well,
then, I trust that you have no objection to tobacco-
smoke, to the mild balsamic odor of the Eastern to-
bacco. I am a little nervous, and I ﬁnd my hookah
an invaluable sedative.” He applied a taper to the
great bowl, and the smoke bubbled merrily through
the rose-water. We sat all three in a semicircle, with
our heads advanced, and our chins upon our hands,
while the strange, jerky little fellow, with his high,
shining head, puffed uneasily in the centre.
“When I ﬁrst determined to make this communi-
cation to you,” said he, “I might have given you my
address, but I feared that you might disregard my re-
quest and bring unpleasant people with you. I took
the liberty, therefore, of making an appointment in
such a way that my man Williams might be able to
see you ﬁrst. I have complete conﬁdence in his dis-
cretion, and he had orders, if he were dissatisﬁed,
to proceed no further in the matter. You will excuse
these precautions, but I am a man of somewhat retir-
ing, and I might even say reﬁned, tastes, and there is
nothing more unaesthetic than a policeman. I have a
natural shrinking from all forms of rough material-
ism. I seldom come in contact with the rough crowd.
I live, as you see, with some little atmosphere of el-
egance around me. I may call myself a patron of
the arts. It is my weakness. The landscape is a gen-
uine Corot, and, though a connoisseur might perhaps
throw a doubt upon that Salvator Rosa, there cannot
be the least question about the Bouguereau. I am
partial to the modern French school.”
“You will excuse me, Mr. Sholto,” said Miss
Morstan, “but I am here at your request to learn
something which you desire to tell me. It is very
late, and I should desire the interview to be as short
as possible.”
“At the best it must take some time,” he an-
swered; “for we shall certainly have to go to Nor-
wood and see Brother Bartholomew. We shall all
go and try if we can get the better of Brother
Bartholomew. He is very angry with me for taking
the course which has seemed right to me. I had quite
high words with him last night. You cannot imagine
what a terrible fellow he is when he is angry.”“If we are to go to Norwood it would perhaps be
as well to start at once,” I ventured to remark.
He laughed until his ears were quite red. “That
would hardly do,” he cried. “I don’t know what he
would say if I brought you in that sudden way. No, I
must prepare you by showing you how we all stand
to each other. In the ﬁrst place, I must tell you that
there are several points in the story of which I am
myself ignorant. I can only lay the facts before you
as far as I know them myself.
“My father was, as you may have guessed, Ma-
jor John Sholto, once of the Indian army. He re-
tired some eleven years ago, and came to live at
Pondicherry Lodge in Upper Norwood. He had
prospered in India, and brought back with him a con-
siderable sum of money, a large collection of valuable
curiosities, and a staff of native servants. With these
advantages he bought himself a house, and lived in
great luxury. My twin-brother Bartholomew and I
were the only children.
“I very well remember the sensation which was
caused by the disappearance of Captain Morstan. We
read the details in the papers, and, knowing that he
had been a friend of our father’s, we discussed the
case freely in his presence. He used to join in our
speculations as to what could have happened. Never
for an instant did we suspect that he had the whole
secret hidden in his own breast,—that of all men he
alone knew the fate of Arthur Morstan.
“We did know, however, that some mys-
tery—some positive danger—overhung our father.
He was very fearful of going out alone, and he al-
ways employed two prize-ﬁghters to act as porters
at Pondicherry Lodge. Williams, who drove you to-
night, was one of them. He was once light-weight
champion of England. Our father would never tell
us what it was he feared, but he had a most marked
aversion to men with wooden legs. On one occa-
sion he actually ﬁred his revolver at a wooden-legged
man, who proved to be a harmless tradesman can-
vassing for orders. We had to pay a large sum to
hush the matter up. My brother and I used to think
this a mere whim of my father’s, but events have
since led us to change our opinion.
“Early in 1882 my father received a letter from
India which was a great shock to him. He nearly
fainted at the breakfast-table when he opened it, and
from that day he sickened to his death. What was in
the letter we could never discover, but I could see as
he held it that it was short and written in a scrawling
hand. He had suffered for years from an enlarged

TheSign of the Four
spleen, but he now became rapidly worse, and to-
wards the end of April we were informed that he
was beyond all hope, and that he wished to make a
last communication to us.
“When we entered his room he was propped up
with pillows and breathing heavily. He besought us
to lock the door and to come upon either side of the
bed. Then, grasping our hands, he made a remark-
able statement to us, in a voice which was broken as
much by emotion as by pain. I shall try and give it
to you in his own very words.
“ ‘I have only one thing,’ he said, ‘which weighs
upon my mind at this supreme moment. It is my
treatment of poor Morstan’s orphan. The cursed
greed which has been my besetting sin through life
has withheld from her the treasure, half at least of
which should have been hers. And yet I have made
no use of it myself,—so blind and foolish a thing is
avarice. The mere feeling of possession has been so
dear to me that I could not bear to share it with an-
other. See that chaplet dipped with pearls beside the
quinine-bottle. Even that I could not bear to part
with, although I had got it out with the design of
sending it to her. You, my sons, will give her a
fair share of the Agra treasure. But send her noth-
ing—not even the chaplet—until I am gone. After
all, men have been as bad as this and have recovered.
“ ‘I will tell you how Morstan died,’ he continued.
‘He had suffered for years from a weak heart, but he
concealed it from every one. I alone knew it. When
in India, he and I, through a remarkable chain of cir-
cumstances, came into possession of a considerable
treasure. I brought it over to England, and on the
night of Morstan’s arrival he came straight over here
to claim his share. He walked over from the station,
and was admitted by my faithful Lal Chowdar, who
is now dead. Morstan and I had a difference of opin-
ion as to the division of the treasure, and we came to
heated words. Morstan had sprung out of his chair in
a paroxysm of anger, when he suddenly pressed his
hand to his side, his face turned a dusky hue, and he
fell backwards, cutting his head against the corner of
the treasure-chest. When I stooped over him I found,
to my horror, that he was dead.
“ ‘For a long time I sat half distracted, wondering
what I should do. My ﬁrst impulse was, of course,
to call for assistance; but I could not but recognize
that there was every chance that I would be accused
of his murder. His death at the moment of a quarrel,
and the gash in his head, would be black against me.
Again, an ofﬁcial inquiry could not be made without
bringing out some facts about the treasure, which Iwas particularly anxious to keep secret. He had told
me that no soul upon earth knew where he had gone.
There seemed to be no necessity why any soul ever
should know.
“ ‘I was still pondering over the matter, when,
looking up, I saw my servant, Lal Chowdar, in the
doorway. He stole in and bolted the door behind
him. “Do not fear, Sahib,” he said. “No one need
know that you have killed him. Let us hide him
away, and who is the wiser?” “I did not kill him,”
said I. Lal Chowdar shook his head and smiled. “I
heard it all, Sahib,” said he. “I heard you quarrel,
and I heard the blow. But my lips are sealed. All
are asleep in the house. Let us put him away to-
gether.” That was enough to decide met. If my own
servant could not believe my innocence, how could
I hope to make it good before twelve foolish trades-
men in a jury-box? Lal Chowdar and I disposed of
the body that night, and within a few days the Lon-
don papers were full of the mysterious disappear-
ance of Captain Morstan. You will see from what I
say that I can hardly be blamed in the matter. My
fault lies in the fact that we concealed not only the
body, but also the treasure, and that I have clung to
Morstan’s share as well as to my own. I wish you,
therefore, to make restitution. Put your ears down to
my mouth. The treasure is hidden in—At this instant
a horrible change came over his expression; his eyes
stared wildly, his jaw dropped, and he yelled, in a
voice which I can never forget, ‘Keep him out! For
Christ’s sake keep him out’! We both stared round
at the window behind us upon which his gaze was
ﬁxed. A face was looking in at us out of the dark-
ness. We could see the whitening of the nose where
it was pressed against the glass. It was a bearded,
hairy face, with wild cruel eyes and an expression of
concentrated malevolence. My brother and I rushed
towards the window, but the man was gone. When
we returned to my father his head had dropped and
his pulse had ceased to beat.
“We searched the garden that night, but found
no sign of the intruder, save that just under the win-
dow a single footmark was visible in the ﬂower-bed.
But for that one trace, we might have thought that
our imaginations had conjured up that wild, ﬁerce
face. We soon, however, had another and a more
striking proof that there were secret agencies at work
all round us. The window of my father’s room was
found open in the morning, his cupboards and boxes
had been riﬂed, and upon his chest was ﬁxed a torn
piece of paper, with the words ‘The sign of the four’
scrawled across it. What the phrase meant, or who

TheSign of the Four
our secret visitor may have been, we never knew. As
far as we can judge, none of my father’s property had
been actually stolen, though everything had been
turned out. My brother and I naturally associated
this peculiar incident with the fear which haunted
my father during his life; but it is still a complete
mystery to us.”
The little man stopped to relight his hookah and
puffed thoughtfully for a few moments. We had
all sat absorbed, listening to his extraordinary nar-
rative. At the short account of her father’s death
Miss Morstan had turned deadly white, and for a
moment I feared that she was about to faint. She
rallied however, on drinking a glass of water which
I quietly poured out for her from a Venetian carafe
upon the side-table. Sherlock Holmes leaned back in
his chair with an abstracted expression and the lids
drawn low over his glittering eyes. As I glanced at
him I could not but think how on that very day he
had complained bitterly of the commonplaceness of
life. Here at least was a problem which would tax his
sagacity to the utmost. Mr. Thaddeus Sholto looked
from one to the other of us with an obvious pride
at the effect which his story had produced, and then
continued between the puffs of his overgrown pipe.
“My brother and I,” said he, “were, as you may
imagine, much excited as to the treasure which my
father had spoken of. For weeks and for months we
dug and delved in every part of the garden, without
discovering its whereabouts. It was maddening to
think that the hiding-place was on his very lips at the
moment that he died. We could judge the splendor of
the missing riches by the chaplet which he had taken
out. Over this chaplet my brother Bartholomew and I
had some little discussion. The pearls were evidently
of great value, and he was averse to part with them,
for, between friends, my brother was himself a little
inclined to my father’s fault. He thought, too, that if
we parted with the chaplet it might give rise to gos-
sip and ﬁnally bring us into trouble. It was all that
I could do to persuade him to let me ﬁnd out Miss
Morstan’s address and send her a detached pearl at
ﬁxed intervals, so that at least she might never feel
destitute.”
“It was a kindly thought,” said our companion,
earnestly. “It was extremely good of you.”
The little man waved his hand deprecatingly. “We
were your trustees,“ he said. ”That was the view
which I took of it, though Brother Bartholomew
could not altogether see it in that light. We had
plenty of money ourselves. I desired no more. Be-
sides, it would have been such bad taste to havetreated a young lady in so scurvy a fashion. ‘Le mau-
vais go ˆut m `ene au crime.’ The French have a very neat
way of putting these things. Our difference of opin-
ion on this subject went so far that I thought it best to
set up rooms for myself: so I left Pondicherry Lodge,
taking the old khitmutgar and Williams with me. Yes-
terday, however, I learn that an event of extreme im-
portance has occurred. The treasure has been discov-
ered. I instantly communicated with Miss Morstan,
and it only remains for us to drive out to Norwood
and demand our share. I explained my views last
night to Brother Bartholomew: so we shall be ex-
pected, if not welcome, visitors.”
Mr. Thaddeus Sholto ceased, and sat twitching on
his luxurious settee. We all remained silent, with our
thoughts upon the new development which the mys-
terious business had taken. Holmes was the ﬁrst to
spring to his feet.
“You have done well, sir, from ﬁrst to last,” said
he. “It is possible that we may be able to make you
some small return by throwing some light upon that
which is still dark to you. But, as Miss Morstan re-
marked just now, it is late, and we had best put the
matter through without delay.”
Our new acquaintance very deliberately coiled up
the tube of his hookah, and produced from behind
a curtain a very long befrogged topcoat with As-
trakhan collar and cuffs. This he buttoned tightly up,
in spite of the extreme closeness of the night, and ﬁn-
ished his attire by putting on a rabbit-skin cap with
hanging lappets which covered the ears, so that no
part of him was visible save his mobile and peaky
face. “My health is somewhat fragile,“ he remarked,
as he led the way down the passage. ”I am compelled
to be a valetudinarian.”
Our cab was awaiting us outside, and our pro-
gramme was evidently prearranged, for the driver
started off at once at a rapid pace. Thaddeus Sholto
talked incessantly, in a voice which rose high above
the rattle of the wheels.
“Bartholomew is a clever fellow,” said he. “How
do you think he found out where the treasure was?
He had come to the conclusion that it was some-
where indoors: so he worked out all the cubic
space of the house, and made measurements ev-
erywhere, so that not one inch should be unac-
counted for. Among other things, he found that
the height of the building was seventy-four feet, but
on adding together the heights of all the separate
rooms, and making every allowance for the space
between, which he ascertained by borings, he could

TheSign of the Four
not bring the total to more than seventy feet. There
were four feet unaccounted for. These could only
be at the top of the building. He knocked a hole,
therefore, in the lath-and-plaster ceiling of the high-
est room, and there, sure enough, he came upon an-
other little garret above it, which had been sealed up
and was known to no one. In the centre stood the
treasure-chest, resting upon two rafters. He lowered
it through the hole, and there it lies. He computes
the value of the jewels at not less than half a million
sterling.”
At the mention of this gigantic sum we all stared
at one another open-eyed. Miss Morstan, could we
secure her rights, would change from a needy gov-
erness to the richest heiress in England. Surely it
was the place of a loyal friend to rejoice at such news;
yet I am ashamed to say that selﬁshness took me by
the soul, and that my heart turned as heavy as lead
within me. I stammered out some few halting wordsof congratulation, and then sat downcast, with my
head drooped, deaf to the babble of our new acquain-
tance. He was clearly a conﬁrmed hypochondriac,
and I was dreamily conscious that he was pouring
forth interminable trains of symptoms, and implor-
ing information as to the composition and action of
innumerable quack nostrums, some of which he bore
about in a leather case in his pocket. I trust that
he may not remember any of the answers which I
gave him that night. Holmes declares that he over-
heard me caution him against the great danger of
taking more than two drops of castor oil, while I
recommended strychnine in large doses as a seda-
tive. However that may be, I was certainly relieved
when our cab pulled up with a jerk and the coach-
man sprang down to open the door.
“This, Miss Morstan, is Pondicherry Lodge,” said
Mr. Thaddeus Sholto, as he handed her out.
CHAPTER V .
TheTragedy of Pondicherry Lodge
It was nearly eleven o’clock when we reached
this ﬁnal stage of our night’s adventures. We had
left the damp fog of the great city behind us, and the
night was fairly ﬁne. A warm wind blew from the
westward, and heavy clouds moved slowly across the
sky, with half a moon peeping occasionally through
the rifts. It was clear enough to see for some dis-
tance, but Thaddeus Sholto took down one of the
side-lamps from the carriage to give us a better light
upon our way.
Pondicherry Lodge stood in its own grounds, and
was girt round with a very high stone wall topped
with broken glass. A single narrow iron-clamped
door formed the only means of entrance. On this our
guide knocked with a peculiar postman-like rat-tat.
“Who is there?” cried a gruff voice from within.
“It is I, McMurdo. You surely know my knock by
this time.”
There was a grumbling sound and a clanking and
jarring of keys. The door swung heavily back, and a
short, deep-chested man stood in the opening, withthe yellow light of the lantern shining upon his pro-
truded face and twinkling distrustful eyes.
“That you, Mr. Thaddeus? But who are the oth-
ers? I had no orders about them from the master.”
“No, McMurdo? You surprise me! I told my
brother last night that I should bring some friends.
“He ain’t been out o’ his room to-day, Mr. Thad-
deus, and I have no orders. You know very well that
I must stick to regulations. I can let you in, but your
friends must just stop where they are.”
This was an unexpected obstacle. Thaddeus
Sholto looked about him in a perplexed and help-
less manner. “This is too bad of you, McMurdo!” he
said. “If I guarantee them, that is enough for you.
There is the young lady, too. She cannot wait on the
public road at this hour.”
“Very sorry, Mr. Thaddeus,” said the porter, in-
exorably. “Folk may be friends o’ yours, and yet no
friends o’ the master’s. He pays me well to do my
duty, and my duty I’ll do. I don’t know none o’ your
friends.”

TheSign of the Four
“Oh, yes you do, McMurdo,” cried Sherlock
Holmes, genially. “I don’t think you can have for-
gotten me. Don’t you remember the amateur who
fought three rounds with you at Alison’s rooms on
the night of your beneﬁt four years back?”
“Not Mr. Sherlock Holmes!” roared the prize-
ﬁghter. “God’s truth! how could I have mistook
you? If instead o’ standin’ there so quiet you had
just stepped up and given me that cross-hit of yours
under the jaw, I’d ha’ known you without a question.
Ah, you’re one that has wasted your gifts, you have!
You might have aimed high, if you had joined the
fancy.”
“You see, Watson, if all else fails me I have still
one of the scientiﬁc professions open to me,“ said
Holmes, laughing. “Our friend won’t keep us out in
the cold now, I am sure.”
“In you come, sir, in you come,—you and your
friends,” he answered. “Very sorry, Mr. Thaddeus,
but orders are very strict. Had to be certain of your
friends before I let them in.”
Inside, a gravel path wound through desolate
grounds to a huge clump of a house, square and pro-
saic, all plunged in shadow save where a moonbeam
struck one corner and glimmered in a garret win-
dow. The vast size of the building, with its gloom
and its deathly silence, struck a chill to the heart.
Even Thaddeus Sholto seemed ill at ease, and the
lantern quivered and rattled in his hand.
“I cannot understand it,” he said. “There must
be some mistake. I distinctly told Bartholomew that
we should be here, and yet there is no light in his
window. I do not know what to make of it.”
“Does he always guard the premises in this way?”
asked Holmes.
“Yes; he has followed my father’s custom. He was
the favorite son, you know, and I sometimes think
that my father may have told him more than he ever
told me. That is Bartholomew’s window up there
where the moonshine strikes. It is quite bright, but
there is no light from within, I think.”
“None,” said Holmes. “But I see the glint of a
light in that little window beside the door.”
“Ah, that is the housekeeper’s room. That is
where old Mrs. Bernstone sits. She can tell us all
about it. But perhaps you would not mind wait-
ing here for a minute or two, for if we all go in to-
gether and she has no word of our coming she may
be alarmed. But hush! what is that?”
He held up the lantern, and his hand shook until
the circles of light ﬂickered and wavered all roundus. Miss Morstan seized my wrist, and we all stood
with thumping hearts, straining our ears. From the
great black house there sounded through the silent
night the saddest and most pitiful of sounds,—the
shrill, broken whimpering of a frightened woman.
“It is Mrs. Bernstone,” said Sholto. “She is the
only woman in the house. Wait here. I shall be back
in a moment.” He hurried for the door, and knocked
in his peculiar way. We could see a tall old woman
admit him, and sway with pleasure at the very sight
of him.
“Oh, Mr. Thaddeus, sir, I am so glad you have
come! I am so glad you have come, Mr. Thaddeus,
sir!” We heard her reiterated rejoicings until the door
was closed and her voice died away into a mufﬂed
monotone.
Our guide had left us the lantern. Holmes swung
it slowly round, and peered keenly at the house,
and at the great rubbish-heaps which cumbered the
grounds. Miss Morstan and I stood together, and her
hand was in mine. A wondrous subtle thing is love,
for here were we two who had never seen each other
before that day, between whom no word or even look
of affection had ever passed, and yet now in an hour
of trouble our hands instinctively sought for each
other. I have marvelled at it since, but at the time
it seemed the most natural thing that I should go out
to her so, and, as she has often told me, there was
in her also the instinct to turn to me for comfort and
protection. So we stood hand in hand, like two chil-
dren, and there was peace in our hearts for all the
dark things that surrounded us.
“What a strange place!” she said, looking round.
“It looks as though all the moles in England had
been let loose in it. I have seen something of the sort
on the side of a hill near Ballarat, where the prospec-
tors had been at work.”
“And from the same cause,” said Holmes. “These
are the traces of the treasure-seekers. You must re-
member that they were six years looking for it. No
wonder that the grounds look like a gravel-pit.”
At that moment the door of the house burst open,
and Thaddeus Sholto came running out, with his
hands thrown forward and terror in his eyes.
“There is something amiss with Bartholomew!”
he cried. “I am frightened! My nerves cannot stand
it.” He was, indeed, half blubbering with fear, and
his twitching feeble face peeping out from the great
Astrakhan collar had the helpless appealing expres-
sion of a terriﬁed child.

TheSign of the Four
“Come into the house,” said Holmes, in his crisp,
ﬁrm way.
“Yes, do!” pleaded Thaddeus Sholto. “I really do
not feel equal to giving directions.”
We all followed him into the housekeeper’s room,
which stood upon the left-hand side of the passage.
The old woman was pacing up and down with a
scared look and restless picking ﬁngers, but the sight
of Miss Morstan appeared to have a soothing effect
upon her.
“God bless your sweet calm face!” she cried, with
an hysterical sob. “It does me good to see you. Oh,
but I have been sorely tried this day!”
Our companion patted her thin, work-worn hand,
and murmured some few words of kindly womanly
comfort which brought the color back into the others
bloodless cheeks.
“Master has locked himself in and will now an-
swer me,” she explained. “All day I have waited to
hear from him, for he often likes to be alone; but
an hour ago I feared that something was amiss, so I
went up and peeped through the key-hole. You must
go up, Mr. Thaddeus,—you must go up and look for
yourself. I have seen Mr. Bartholomew Sholto in joy
and in sorrow for ten long years, but I never saw him
with such a face on him as that.”
Sherlock Holmes took the lamp and led the way,
for Thaddeus Sholto’s teeth were chattering in his
head. So shaken was he that I had to pass my
hand under his arm as we went up the stairs, for
his knees were trembling under him. Twice as we as-
cended Holmes whipped his lens out of his pocket
and carefully examined marks which appeared to
me to be mere shapeless smudges of dust upon the
cocoa-nut matting which served as a stair-carpet. He
walked slowly from step to step, holding the lamp,
and shooting keen glances to right and left. Miss
Morstan had remained behind with the frightened
housekeeper.
The third ﬂight of stairs ended in a straight pas-
sage of some length, with a great picture in Indian
tapestry upon the right of it and three doors upon
the left. Holmes advanced along it in the same slow
and methodical way, while we kept close at his heels,
with our long black shadows streaming backwards
down the corridor. The third door was that which
we were seeking. Holmes knocked without receiv-
ing any answer, and then tried to turn the handle
and force it open. It was locked on the inside, how-
ever, and by a broad and powerful bolt, as we couldsee when we set our lamp up against it. The key be-
ing turned, however, the hole was not entirely closed.
Sherlock Holmes bent down to it, and instantly rose
again with a sharp intaking of the breath.
“There is something devilish in this, Watson,”
said he, more moved than I had ever before seen him.
“What do you make of it?”
I stooped to the hole, and recoiled in horror.
Moonlight was streaming into the room, and it was
bright with a vague and shifty radiance. Looking
straight at me, and suspended, as it were, in the
air, for all beneath was in shadow, there hung a
face,—the very face of our companion Thaddeus.
There was the same high, shining head, the same
circular bristle of red hair, the same bloodless coun-
tenance. The features were set, however, in a horri-
ble smile, a ﬁxed and unnatural grin, which in that
still and moonlit room was more jarring to the nerves
than any scowl or contortion. So like was the face to
that of our little friend that I looked round at him to
make sure that he was indeed with us. Then I re-
called to mind that he had mentioned to us that his
brother and he were twins.
“This is terrible!” I said to Holmes. “What is to
be done?”
“The door must come down,” he answered, and,
springing against it, he put all his weight upon the
lock. It creaked and groaned, but did not yield. To-
gether we ﬂung ourselves upon it once more, and this
time it gave way with a sudden snap, and we found
ourselves within Bartholomew Sholto’s chamber.
It appeared to have been ﬁtted up as a chemical
laboratory. A double line of glass-stoppered bottles
was drawn up upon the wall opposite the door, and
the table was littered over with Bunsen burners, test-
tubes, and retorts. In the corners stood carboys of
acid in wicker baskets. One of these appeared to
leak or to have been broken, for a stream of dark-
colored liquid had trickled out from it, and the air
was heavy with a peculiarly pungent, tar-like odor.
A set of steps stood at one side of the room, in the
midst of a litter of lath and plaster, and above them
there was an opening in the ceiling large enough for
a man to pass through. At the foot of the steps a long
coil of rope was thrown carelessly together.
By the table, in a wooden arm-chair, the mas-
ter of the house was seated all in a heap, with his
head sunk upon his left shoulder, and that ghastly,
inscrutable smile upon his face. He was stiff and
cold, and had clearly been dead many hours. It
seemed to me that not only his features but all his

TheSign of the Four
limbs were twisted and turned in the most fantastic
fashion. By his hand upon the table there lay a pecu-
liar instrument,—a brown, close-grained stick, with
a stone head like a hammer, rudely lashed on with
coarse twine. Beside it was a torn sheet of note-paper
with some words scrawled upon it. Holmes glanced
at it, and then handed it to me.
“You see,” he said, with a signiﬁcant raising of
the eyebrows.
In the light of the lantern I read, with a thrill of
horror, “The sign of the four.”
“In God’s name, what does it all mean?” I asked.
“It means murder,” said he, stooping over the
dead man. “Ah, I expected it. Look here!” He
pointed to what looked like a long, dark thorn stuck
in the skin just above the ear.
“It looks like a thorn,” said I.
“It is a thorn. You may pick it out. But be careful,
for it is poisoned.”
I took it up between my ﬁnger and thumb. It
came away from the skin so readily that hardly any
mark was left behind. One tiny speck of blood
showed where the puncture had been.
“This is all an insoluble mystery to me,” said I.
“It grows darker instead of clearer.”
“On the contrary,” he answered, “it clears every
instant. I only require a few missing links to have an
entirely connected case.”We had almost forgotten our companion’s pres-
ence since we entered the chamber. He was still
standing in the door-way, the very picture of terror,
wringing his hands and moaning to himself. Sud-
denly, however, he broke out into a sharp, querulous
cry.
“The treasure is gone!” he said. “They have
robbed him of the treasure! There is the hole through
which we lowered it. I helped him to do it! I was the
last person who saw him! I left him here last night,
and I heard him lock the door as I came down-stairs.”
“What time was that?”
“It was ten o’clock. And now he is dead, and
the police will be called in, and I shall be suspected
of having had a hand in it. Oh, yes, I am sure I
shall. But you don’t think so, gentlemen? Surely you
don’t think that it was I? Is it likely that I would have
brought you here if it were I? Oh, dear! oh, dear! I
know that I shall go mad!” He jerked his arms and
stamped his feet in a kind of convulsive frenzy.
“You have no reason for fear, Mr. Sholto,” said
Holmes, kindly, putting his hand upon his shoulder.
“Take my advice, and drive down to the station to
report this matter to the police. Offer to assist them
in every way. We shall wait here until your return.”
The little man obeyed in a half-stupeﬁed fashion,
and we heard him stumbling down the stairs in the
dark.

