Chapter 21  

The discussion of Mr. Collins's offer was now nearly at an end,  
and Elizabeth had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings  
necessarily attending it, and occasionally from s ome peevish  
allusions of her mother.  As for the gentleman himself, HIS  
feelings were chiefly expressed, not by embarrassment or  
dejection, or by trying to avoid her, but by stiffness of manner  
and resentful silence.  He scarcely ever spoke to her, and the  
assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of himself  
were transferred for the rest of the day to Miss Lucas, whose  
civility in listening to him was a seasonable relief to them all, and  
Pride and Prejudice  
Get any book for free on:   www.Abika.com  
 77
especially to her friend.  

The morrow produced no abatement o f Mrs. Bennet's ill -humour 
or ill health.  Mr. Collins was also in the same state of angry  
pride.  Elizabeth had hoped that his resentment might shorten his  
visit, but his plan did not appear in the least affected by it.  He  
was always to have gone on Satu rday, and to Saturday he meant  
to stay.  

After breakfast, the girls walked to Meryton to inquire if Mr.  
Wickham were returned, and to lament over his absence from  
the Netherfield ball.  He joined them on their entering the town,  
and attended them to their aunt's where his regret and vexation,  
and the concern of everybody, was well talked over.  To  
Elizabeth, however, he voluntarily acknowledged that the  
necessity of his absence HAD been self -imposed.  

"I found," said he, "as the time drew near that I had be tter not  
meet Mr. Darcy; that to be in the same room, the same party  
with him for so many hours together, might be more than I could  
bear, and that scenes might arise unpleasant to more than  
myself."  

She highly approved his forbearance, and they had leisu re for a  
full discussion of it, and for all the commendation which they  
civilly bestowed on each other, as Wickham and another officer  
walked back with them to Longbourn, and during the walk he  
particularly attended to her.  His accompanying them was a  
double advantage; she felt all the compliment it offered to  
herself, and it was most acceptable as an occasion of introducing  
him to her father and mother.  

Soon after their return, a letter was delivered to Miss Bennet; it  
came from Netherfield.  The envelop e contained a sheet of  
elegant, little, hot -pressed paper, well covered with a lady's fair,  
flowing hand; and Elizabeth saw her sister's countenance change  
as she read it, and saw her dwelling intently on some particular  
passages.  Jane recollected herself  soon, and putting the letter  
away, tried to join with her usual cheerfulness in the general  
conversation; but Elizabeth felt an anxiety on the subject which  
drew off her attention even from Wickham; and no sooner had  
he and he companion taken leave, than a glance from Jane  
invited her to follow her upstairs.  When they had gained their  
own room, Jane, taking out her letter, said, "This is from  
Caroline Bingley; what it contains has surprised me a good deal.  
The whole party have left Netherfield by this tim e, and are on  
their way to town -- and without any intention of coming back  
again.  You shall hear what she says."  

She then read the first sentence aloud, which comprised the  
information of their having just resolved to follow their brother  
to town directl y, and of their meaning to dine in Grosvenor  
Street, where Mr. Hurst had a house.  The next was in these  
words: "I do not pretend to regret anything I shall leave in  
Hertfordshire, except your society, my dearest friend; but we  
will hope, at some future pe riod, to enjoy many returns of that  
delightful intercourse we have known, and in the meanwhile may  
Pride and Prejudice  
Get any book for free on:   www.Abika.com  
 78
lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most  
unreserved correspondence.  I depend on you for that."  To  
these highflown expressions Elizabeth li stened with all the  
insensibility of distrust; and though the suddenness of their  
removal surprised her, she saw nothing in it really to lament; it  
was not to be supposed that their absence from Netherfield  
would prevent Mr. Bingley's being there; and as t o the loss of  
their society, she was persuaded that Jane must cease to regard  
it, in the enjoyment of his.  

"It is unlucky," said she, after a short pause, "that you should  
not be able to see your friends before they leave the country.  
But may we not hope that the period of future happiness to  
which Miss Bingley looks forward may arrive earlier than she is  
aware, and that the delightful intercourse you have known as  
friends will be renewed with yet greater satisfaction as sisters?  
Mr. Bingley will not be de tained in London by them."  

"Caroline decidedly says that none of the party will return into  
Hertfordshire this winter.  I will read it to you:  

" #When my brother left us yesterday, he imagined that the              *  
business which took him to London mig ht be concluded in three     *  
or four days; but as we are certain it cannot be so, and at the          *  
same time convinced that when Charles gets to town he will be       *  
in no hurry to leave it again, we have determined on following        *  
him thit her, that he may not be obliged to spend his vacant hours    *  
in a comfortless hotel.  Many of my acquaintances are already         *  
there for the winter; I wish that I could hear that you, my dearest     *  
friend, had any intention of making one of the crowd-- but of           *  
that I despair.  I sincerely hope your Christmas in Hertfordshire        *  
may abound in the gaieties which that season generally brings,          *  
and that your beaux will be so numerous as to prevent your              *  
feeling the loss of the three of whom we shall deprive you.' "            *  

"It is evident by this," added Jane, "that he comes back no more  
this winter."  

"It is only evident that Miss Bingley does not mean that he  
SHOULD."  

"Why will you think so?  It must be  his own doing.  He is his  
own master.  But you do not know ALL.  I WILL read you the  
passage which particularly hurts me.  I will have no reserves  
from YOU."  

" #Mr. Darcy is impatient to see his sister; and, to confess the                 
* 
truth, WE are  scarcely less eager to meet her again.  I really do              
* 
not think Georgiana Darcy has her equal for beauty, elegance,                
* 
and accomplishments; and the affection she inspires in Louisa                 
* 
and myself is heightened into  something still more interesting,                
* 
Pride and Prejudice  
Get any book for free on:   www.Abika.com  
 79
from the hope we dare entertain of her being hereafter our                     
* 
sister.  I do not know whether I ever before mentioned to you               *  
my feelings on this subject; but I will not l eave the country                    
* 
without confiding them, and I trust you will not esteem them                 
* 
unreasonable.  My brother admires her greatly already; he will               
* 
have frequent opportunity now of seeing her on the most                       
* 
intimate footing; her relations all wish the connection as much as           
* 
his own; and a sister's partiality is not misleading me, I think,                 
* 
when I call Charles most capable of engaging any woman's                    * 
heart.  With all these circumstances to favour an attachment, and           *  
nothing to prevent it, am I wrong, my dearest Jane, in indulging             
* 
the hope of an event which will secure the happiness of so                      
* 
many?' "                                                                                                 
* 

"What do you think of THIS sentence, my dear Lizzy?" said  
Jane as she finished it.  "Is it not clear enough?  Does it not  
expressly declare that Caroline neithe r expects nor wishes me to  
be her sister; that she is perfectly convinced of her brother's  
indifference; and that if she suspects the nature of my feelings for  
him, she means (most kindly!) to put me on my guard?  Can  
there be any other opinion on the subj ect?" 

"Yes, there can; for mine is totally different.  Will you hear it?"  

"Most willingly."  

You shall have it in a few words.  Miss Bingley sees that her  
brother is in love with you, and wants him to marry Miss Darcy.  
She follows him to town in hope of keeping him there, and tries  
to persuade you that he does not care about you."  

Jane shook her head.  

""Indeed, Jane, you ought to believe me.  No one who has ever  
seen you together can doubt his affection.  Miss Bingley, I am  
sure, cannot.  She is not suc h a simpleton.  Could she have seen  
half as much love in Mr. Darcy for herself, she would have  
ordered her wedding clothes.  But the case is this: We are not  
rich enough or grand enough for them; and she is the more  
anxious to get Miss Darcy for her brothe r, from the notion that  
when there has been ONE intermarriage, she may have less  
trouble in achieving a second: in which there is certainly some  
ingenuity, and I dare say it would succeed, if Miss de Bourgh  
were out of the way.  But, my dearest Jane, you c annot seriously  
imagine that because Miss Bingley tells you her brother greatly  
admires Miss Darcy, he is in the smallest degree less sensible of  
YOUR merit than when he took leave of you on Tuesday, or  
Pride and Prejudice  
Get any book for free on:   www.Abika.com  
 80
that it will be in her power to persuade him that, in stead of being  
in love with you, he is very much in love with her friend."  

"If we thought alike of Miss Bingley," replied Jane, "your  
representation of all this might make me quite easy.  But I know  
the foundation is unjust.  Caroline is incapable of wilf ully 
deceiving anyone; and all that I can hope in this case is that she  
is deceiving herself."  

"That is right.  You could not have started a more happy idea,  
since you will not take comfort in mine.  Believe her to be  
deceived, by all means.  You have now  done your duty by her,  
and must fret no longer."  

"But, my dear sister, can I be happy, even supposing the best, in  
accepting a man whose sisters and friends are all wishing him to  
marry elsewhere?"  

"You must decide for yourself," said Elizabeth; "and if , upon 
mature deliberation, you find that the misery of disobliging his  
two sisters is more than equivalent to the happiness of being his  
wife, I advise you by all means to refuse him."  

"How can you talk so?" said Jane, faintly smiling.  "You must  
know that though I should be exceedingly grieved at their  
disapprobation, I could not hesitate."  

"I did not think you would; and that being the case, I cannot  
consider your situation with much compassion."  

"But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be  
required. A thousand things may arise in six months!"  

The idea of his returning no more Elizabeth treated with the  
utmost contempt.  It appeared to her merely the suggestion of  
Caroline's interested wishes, and she could not for a moment  
suppose that those wishes, however openly or artfully spoken,  
could influence a young man so totally independent of everyone.  

She represented to her sister as forcibly as possible what she felt  
on the subject, and had soon the pleasure of seeing its happy  
effect.  Jane's temper was not desponding, and she was  
gradually led to hope, though the diffidence of affection  
sometimes overcame the hope, that Bingley would return to  
Netherfield and answer every wish of her heart.  

They agreed that Mrs. Bennet should only h ear of the departure  
of the family, without being alarmed on the score of the  
gentleman's conduct; but even this partial communication gave  
her a great deal of concern, and she bewailed it as exceedingly  
unlucky that the ladies should happen to go away jus t as they  
were all getting so intimate together.  After lamenting it,  
however, at some length, she had the consolation that Mr.  
Bingley would be soon down again and soon dining at  
Longbourn, and the conclusion of all was the comfortable  
declaration, that t hough he had been invited only to a family  
Pride and Prejudice  
Get any book for free on:   www.Abika.com  
 81
dinner, she would take care to have two full courses.
